pmid	title	abstract	label	text_label
29990300	Oxidative stress in triazine pesticide toxicity: a review of the main biomarker findings.	This review article provides a summary of the studies relying on oxidative stress biomarkers (lipid peroxidation and antioxidant enzymes in particular) to investigate the effects of atrazine and terbuthylazine exposure in experimental animals and humans published since 2010. In general, experimental animals showed that atrazine and terbuthylazine exposure mostly affected their antioxidant defences and, to a lesser extent, lipid peroxidation, but the effects varied by the species, sex, age, herbicide concentration, and duration of exposure. Most of the studies involved aquatic organisms as useful and sensitive bio-indicators of environmental pollution and important part of the food chain. In laboratory mice and rats changes in oxidative stress markers were visible only with exposure to high doses of atrazine. Recently, our group reported that low-dose terbuthylazine could also induce oxidative stress in Wistar rats. It is evident that any experimental assessment of pesticide toxic effects should take into account a combination of several oxidative stress and antioxidant defence biomarkers in various tissues and cell compartments. The identified effects in experimental models should then be complemented and validated by epidemiological studies. This is important if we wish to understand the impact of pesticides on human health and to establish safe limits.	1	pesticide
29990732	Toxicity induced by glyphosate and glyphosate-based herbicides in the zebrafish hepatocyte cell line (ZF-L).	Glyphosate is the active component of many commonly used herbicides; it can reach bodies of water through irrigated rice plantations. In the present study, we evaluated the effect of glyphosate and Roundup® (a glyphosate-based herbicide) in established culture of the zebrafish hepatocyte cell line ZF-L after 24 and 48 h of exposure to concentrations of 650 and 3250 µg/L. We observed a reduction in metabolic activity and lysosomal integrity, and an increase in cell number after 24 h of Roundup® exposure at the highest concentration. An increase in active mitochondria and apoptotic cells was observed following 24 h exposure to glyphosate and Roundup®, while only exposure to Roundup® induced an increase in necrotic cells. Rhodamine B accumulation decreased after 48 h exposure to 650 µg/L of Roundup®; this reduction is indicative of increased activity of ABC pumps. Overall, the present findings highlighted the hazard of glyphosate exposure not only in the commercial formulation but also glyphosate alone, since both can induce damage in the ZF-L cell line primarily through the induction of apoptosis.	1	pesticide
30015122	Glyphosate and atrazine in rainfall and soils in agroproductive areas of the pampas region in Argentina.	The presence in the atmosphere of glyphosate (GLP) and atrazine (ATZ) was investigated-those pesticides dominating the market in Argentina-through rain, as the main climatic phenomenon associated with wet deposition, both through analyzing source-receptor relationships with soil along with the climatic influences that may condition that transport and through estimating the annual deposition on the surface of the Argentine pampas. Rainwater samples (n = 112) were collected throughout each rainfall in urban areas of the pampas having different degrees of land use and with extensive crop production plus subsurface-soil samples (n = 58) from the relevant periurban sites. The herbicides-analyzed by liquid-chromatography-mass-spectrometry-were detected in >80% of the rain samples at median-to-maximum concentrations of 1.24-67.3 μg·L-1 (GLP) and 0.22-26.9 μg·L-1(ATZ), while aminomethylphosphonic acid (AMPA) was detected at 34% (0.75-7.91 μg·L-1). In soils, GLP was more frequently registered (41%; 102-323 μg·kg-1) followed by ATZ (32%; 7-66 μg·kg-1) and then AMPA (22%; 223-732 μg·kg-1). The maximum GLP concentrations quantified in rainwater exceeded the previously reported levels for the USA and Canada. No associations were observed between soil and rainwater concentrations in the same monitoring areas-despite the soil's action as a source, as evidenced through the AMPA present in rainwater. Median GLP concentrations were significantly associated with isohyets, in an increasing gradient from the east to the west-as such in an inverse pattern to that of the annual rainfall volumes; whereas ATZ-rainwater levels exhibited no characteristic spatial configuration. The estimated annual deposition of GLP by rainfall indicated that more than onc source of a herbicide can lead to its presence in the atmosphere and points out the relevance of rainfall's contribution to the surface levels of a pollutant.	1	pesticide
30021322	A survey of multiple pesticide residues in pollen and beebread collected in China.	Honeybees, as major pollinators, make vital contributions to humans and ecosystems. Worryingly, a phenomenon known as honeybee colony losses has been reported in recent years. One of the factors underlying the occurrence of honeybee colony losses is exposure of honey bees to pesticide residues in their food, which cause detrimental sublethal effects and may lead to the collapse of their colonies. In this paper, 189 pollen samples and 226 beebread samples collected from five major beekeeping areas in China were analyzed from spring 2016 to autumn 2017. The most common active ingredient residues found include the insecticides (imidacloprid, thiamethoxam, fenpropathrin, bifenthrin and chlorpyrifos), the acaricides (coumaphos and fluvalinate) and the fungicides (carbendazim and triadimefon). Our data shows that the residual level of three chemicals (i.e. imidacloprid, thiamethoxam and chlorpyrifos) was higher in pollen than in beebread. Moreover, contamination of pollen and beebread was most serious in spring and in the middle and lower reaches of the Yellow River Area of China. Our data lay the foundation for the risk assessment of pesticides on honeybees in China.	1	pesticide
30024824	Assessment of boscalid and pyraclostrobin disappearance and behavior following application of effective microorganisms on apples.	The aim of this study is to assess the disappearance of boscalid (IUPAC name: 2-chloro-N-[2-(4-chlorophenyl)phenyl]pyridine-3-carboxamide) and pyraclostrobin (IUPAC name: methyl N-[2-[[1-(4-chlorophenyl)pyrazol-3-yl]oxymethyl]phenyl]-N-methoxycarbamate) residues in apple fruit, and to verify whether an organic fertilizer enriched with strains of antagonistic microorganisms can reduce pesticide residue levels. Field trials were conducted in a commercial orchard on apples of the Gloster variety, during 21 days after the treatment with Bellis 38 WG and the subsequent application of Zumba Plant formulation containing Bacillus spp., Trichoderma spp. and Glomus spp. In control samples, the decrease rate of boscalid and pyraclostrobin residue levels followed an exponential function, described by formulae Rt = 0.2824e-0.071t and Rt = 0.1176e-0.060t, with the coefficient of determination of r2 = 0.8692 and r2 = 0.9268, respectively. These levels dropped to half (t1/2) of their initial values after 9.8 and 11.5 days, respectively. The treatment with Zumba Plant resulted in a reduction in boscalid and pyraclostrobin residue levels by 52% and 41%, respectively. The results of this study are of importance for horticulture sciences and for producers of apples using plant protection products (PPPs).	1	pesticide
30025459	Development and Validation of an Ultra-Sensitive UHPLC-MS/MS Method for Neonicotinoid Analysis in Milk.	A very sensitive ultrahigh performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS/MS) method was developed and validated for the quantitation of the most common neonicotinoids (thiamethoxam, clothianidin, imidacloprid, acetamiprid, and thiacloprid) at trace levels in milk. Using fast and selective liquid-liquid extraction (LLE) starting from 0.5 mL of milk, lowest limits of quantitation (LLOQ) equal or lower than 10 pg/mL for all analytes were achieved. Precision and accuracy were evaluated at four different concentrations (5, 10, 500, and 10000 pg/mL) and ranged between 2 and 16% (RSD) and 77-125%, respectively. Extraction recoveries and matrix effects ranged between 64 and 76% and 88-98%, respectively. The method was applied to measure neonicotinoid levels in a series of conventional and organic Swiss milks as well as in human breast milk and commercial powdered milk. More than 90% of the samples tested positive for at least one neonicotinoid. However, all animal samples were far below the maximum residue limits authorized for human consumption with average total neonicotinoid levels of 16.1 ± 13.1 pg/mL. Human breast milks and powdered milks contained similar amounts of neonicotinoids. Taken together, our results demonstrate the high prevalence of neonicotinoids in milk from all origins, albeit at levels considered to be safe for human consumption.	1	pesticide
30032372	Photocatalytic degradation of imidacloprid by Ag-ZnO composite.	The present study focused on exploring the potential of Ag-ZnO composites for complete mineralization of imidacloprid with the aim to sustain the pollutant free safe water supply. The composites were prepared by hydrothermal method and characterized by Scanning electron microscope (SEM), Energy dispersive X-ray crystallography (EDX), X-ray diffraction (XRD) and band gap measurements. These composites were used to study the UV irradiated degradation of imidacloprid while optimizing the process parameters such as time of UV irradiation, pH of medium, pesticide concentration and composite loading. The results of the study revealed an increase in photodegradation of imidacloprid by Ag-ZnO composites than pure ZnO. Temperature and catalyst loading had a positive effect on degradation efficiency, while an inverse relation was observed between pesticide concentration and degradation. Moreover, no harmful degradation products of imidacloprid were observed in GC-MS analyses that confirmed its complete mineralization.	1	pesticide
30033022	Synthesis and bioactivity of thiazolidin-2-cyanamide derivatives against type III secretion system of Xanthomonas oryzae on rice.	Targeting virulence factors of bacterial without affecting their growth and survival, has been an initiative strategy for the development of novel anti-microbial agents. The type III secretion system (T3SS), one of essential and highly conserved virulence factors in most Gram-negative pathogenic bacteria, has been regarded as an effective target that developed new anti-microbial drugs. Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) is one of the most Important bacterial pathogens on rice, which causes leaf blight disease. To discover potential anti-virulence agents against the pathogens, a new series of thiazolidin-2-cyanamide derivatives containing 5-phenyl-2-furan were designed and synthesized. Their structures were characterized by 1H NMR, 13C NMR, MS, and elemental analysis. All the title compounds inhibited the promoter activity of a harpin gene hpa1, significantly, that were further checked for the impact on bacterial growth and on the hypersensitive response (HR) caused by Xoo on non-host tobacco plants. The results indicated that treatment of Xoo with the title compounds II-2, II-3 and II-4 resulted in significantly attenuated HR without affecting bacterial growth or survival. Moreover, quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis showed that the expression of the Xoo T3SS was suppressed by treatment with the three inhibitors. The mRNA levels of representative genes in the hrp (hypersensitive response and pathogenicity) cluster, as well as the regulatory genes hrpG and hrpX, were reduced. Finally, the in vivo test demonstrated that the compounds could reduce the disease symptoms of Xoo on the rice cultivar (Oryza sativa) IR24.	1	pesticide
30075377	Occurrence and distribution of pesticides in precipitation as revealed by targeted screening through GC-MS/MS.	Facing the tough challenge of precise measurement of ever-increasing numbers of organic contaminants in the environment, there is an urgent need for more reliable and cost-effective methodologies. In this study, we developed and validated a screening method for analysis of over 450 pesticides in precipitation using gas chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (GC-MS/MS) in multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode. Solid phase extraction (SPE) was applied to extract target analytes from precipitation. Using this targeted approach, we managed to detect 123 pesticides with maximum retention time shifts below 0.1 min (except for DEET) in 101 precipitation samples collected between October 2015 and March 2017 in Singapore. This is probably the first study to report the measurements of a wide range of pesticides in precipitation. A spectrum of insecticides, herbicides, fungicides and their synergists were detected and among them DEET, malathion and carbaryl were the most frequently detected pesticides (detection frequency: 100%, 96% & 67%). The Spearman correlations suggest that some pesticides of different subgroups had significant correlations. It is believed that these finding could shed light on the understanding of the contribution of precipitation to environmental contaminants in water cycle.	1	pesticide
30109197	Multi-residue pesticides analysis in water samples using reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC).	India is one of the leading suppliers of agrochemicals and has the largest pesticide industry in Asia. Among various Indian states, Punjab is the primary user of pesticides. Presence of pesticide residue in water and food products of Punjab is well documented. The present study was designed to envisage the level of pesticide contamination in pond water of eleven villages of Amritsar district of Punjab, India. A rapid and concurrent method for the identification and quantification of pesticides in water samples was developed and validated. The method validation parameters exhibited high sensitivity of the developed method and the proficiency for the identification and quantification of pesticide residues in water samples. The RP-HPLC method described here •is a novel method which is applicable for simple, rapid and precise detection of pesticides.•40.02% of water samples were found contaminated with multi-residue pesticides.•carbofuran was the most abundant pesticide which was present in 18.18% samples.	1	pesticide
30125205	Detection and Characterization of QoI-Resistant Phytophthora capsici Causing Pepper Phytophthora Blight in China.	Phytophthora capsici is a highly destructive plant pathogen that has spread worldwide. To date, the quinone outside inhibitor (QoI) azoxystrobin has been the choice of farmers for managing this oomycete. In this study, the sensitivity of 90 P. capsici isolates collected from Yunnan, Fujian, Jiangxi, Zhejiang, and Guangdong in southern China to azoxystrobin was assessed based on mycelial growth, sporangia formation, and zoospore discharge. Furthermore, the mitochondrial cytochrome b (cytb) gene from azoxystrobin-sensitive and -resistant P. capsici isolates was compared to investigate the mechanism of QoI resistance. The high values for effective concentration to inhibit 50% of mycelial growth and large variation factor obtained provide strong support for the existence of azoxystrobin-resistant subpopulations in wild populations. The resistance frequency of P. capsici to azoxystrobin was greater than 40%. Sensitive P. capsici isolates were strongly suppressed on V8 medium plates containing azoxystrobin supplemented with salicylhydroxamic acid at 50 µg ml-1, whereas resistant isolates grew well under these conditions. Multiple alignment analysis revealed a missense mutation in the cytb gene that alters codon 137 (GGA to AGA), causing an amino acid substitution of glycine to arginine (G137R). The fitness of the azoxystrobin-sensitive isolate is similar to that of the G137R mutant. Additionally, the P. capsici isolates used in this study exhibited decreased sensitivity to two other QoI fungicides (pyraclostrobin and famoxadone). Necessary measures should be taken to control this trend of resistance to QoI that has developed in P. capsici in southern China.	1	pesticide
30125850	Pesticides related to land use in watersheds of the Great Lakes basin.	In this study, we evaluated the distribution and concentrations of a range of neonicotinoid insecticides (NNIs) and other insecticides, fungicides, biocides and selected herbicides in watersheds that drain into the lower Great Lakes in Ontario, Canada. Polar Organic Chemical Integrative Samplers (POCIS) were deployed in 18 watersheds during late May to late June of 2016. Grab samples were also collected in 7 of these watersheds. There was generally good agreement between the time-weighted average concentrations of pesticides estimated from the POCIS and the concentrations detected in grab samples. The NNIs, thiamethoxam, clothianidin and imidacloprid, were present in several watersheds at concentrations that exceeded the Canadian Water Quality Guideline for imidacloprid of 0.23 μg/L. The new generation insecticides, flonicamid and flupyradifurone were also detected in some watersheds, which is the first report of these pesticides in the peer-reviewed literature. Atrazine, 2,4-D, dicamba, carbendazim, thiophanate methyl and several azole-based fungicides were also widely detected. Discriminant Function Analysis (DFA) indicated that a high proportion (i.e. >80%) of the watersheds could be discriminated from each other on the basis of the pattern of pesticides detected in surface waters, and the proportion of field crops in the watershed.	1	pesticide
30128723	Characteristics of AccSTIP1 in Apis cerana cerana and its role during oxidative stress responses.	Various environmental stresses, such as heat shock, heavy metals, ultraviolet (UV) radiation and different pesticides, induce a cellular oxidative stress response. The cellular oxidative stress response is usually regulated by heat shock proteins (Hsps) acting as molecular chaperones. Stress-induced phosphoprotein 1 (STIP1), one of the most widely studied co-chaperones, functions as an adaptor that directs Hsp90 to Hsp70-client protein complexes. However, the biological functions of STIP1 remain poorly understood in honeybee (Apis cerana cerana). In this study, AccSTIP1 was identified in Apis cerana cerana. AccSTIP1 transcription was found to be induced by heat (42 °C), HgCl2, H2O2 and different pesticides (emamectin benzoate, thiamethoxam, hexythiazox and paraquat) and inhibited by CdCl2, UV and kresoxim-methyl. Moreover, western blot analysis indicated that the expression profiles of AccSTIP1 were consistent with its transcriptional expression levels. The disc diffusion assay showed that chemically competent transetta (DE3) bacteria expressing a recombinant AccSTIP1 protein displayed the smaller death zones than did control bacteria after exposure to paraquat and HgCl2. The DNA nicking assay suggested that recombinant purified AccSTIP1 protected supercoiled pUC19 plasmid DNA from damage caused by a thiol-dependent mixed-function oxidation (MFO) system. After knocking down AccSTIP1 gene expression via RNA interference (RNAi), the transcript levels of antioxidation-related genes were obviously lower in dsAccSTIP1 honeybees compared with those in the uninjected honeybees. Collectively, these results demonstrated that AccSTIP1 plays an important role in counteracting oxidative stress. This study lays a foundation for revealing the mechanism of AccSTIP1 in the Apis cerana cerana antioxidant system.	1	pesticide
30142450	Glyphosate-based herbicides modulate oxidative stress response in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans.	Glyphosate-based formulation is used as non-selective and post-emergent herbicides in urban and rural activities. In view of its recurring applications in agricultural producing countries, the increase of glyphosate concentration in the environment stresses the need to test the adverse effects on non-target organisms and assess the risk of its use. This paper analyzes the toxicological and oxidative stress and modulatory effects of a glyphosate commercial formulation (glyphosate F) on the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. We detected ROS production and enhancement of oxidative stress response in glyphosate F-treated nematodes. Particularly, we found an increased ctl-1 catalase gene expression of a catalase specific activity. In addition, we showed that glyphosate F treatment activated the FOXO transcription factor DAF-16, a critical target of the insulin/IGF-1 signaling pathway, which modulates the transcription of a broad range of genes involved in stress resistance, reproductive development, dauer formation, and longevity. In summary, the exposure of glyphosate F induces an oxidative imbalance in C. elegans that leads to the DAF-16 activation and consequently to the expression of genes that boost the antioxidant defense system. In this regard, clt-1 gene and catalase activity proved to be excellent biomarkers to develop more sensitive protocols to assess the environmental risk of glyphosate use.	1	pesticide
30145949	Evaluation of the TOM-CAST Forecasting Model in Asparagus for Management of Stemphylium Leaf Spot in Ontario, Canada.	In the last 5 years, asparagus acreage in Canada has increased by over 25%. Stemphylium leaf spot, caused by Stemphylium vesicarium, has emerged as the predominant foliar pathogen of asparagus. Typically, contact fungicides are applied every 14 days; however, regardless of the number of applications, growers are not achieving adequate control of the disease. The TOM-CAST forecasting model is used widely in Michigan asparagus fields, but it has never been assessed for suitability in Ontario or in the popular cultivar, Guelph Millennium. Six field trials were conducted in 2012 and 2013 to evaluate the TOM-CAST forecasting model in two asparagus cultivars. The fungicides chlorothalonil or azoxystrobin/difenoconazole were applied according to the forecasting model or on a 14-day interval. The effectiveness of the forecasting model differed between sites and cultivars. Even though TOM-CAST is used in all cultivars in Michigan, TOM-CAST was not effective on Guelph Millennium. In the cultivar Jersey Giant, however, TOM-CAST with a 20 disease severity value spray interval improved control of Stemphylium leaf spot without increasing the number of sprays, compared with a 14-day treatment. The results in Guelph Millennium differed between sites. At one site, TOM-CAST maintained similar levels of Stemphylium leaf spot, but increased the number of applications, compared with a 14-day application interval. Of more concern, none of the fungicide treatments differed greatly from the untreated control at the other site. Our results show that forecasting models need to be validated locally in asparagus cultivars relevant to production today.	1	pesticide
30174036	Simultaneous determination of ten neonicotinoid insecticides and two metabolites in honey and Royal-jelly by solid-phase extraction and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	An analytical method based on liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method was developed for the first simultaneous determination of ten neonicotinoid insecticides (pymetrozine, dinotefuran, nitenpyram, thiamethoxam, flonicamid, imidacloprid, clothianidin, imidaclothiz, acetamiprid, thiacloprid) and two metabolites (4-trifluoromethylnicotinamide and N-desmethylacetamiprid) in honey and royal-jelly. The quantitative detection was performed by LC-MS/MS on multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode under positive-ion electrospray ionization. The isotope dilution internal standard method or external standard method was used for quantitation analysis. The limits of quantification (LOQs), calculated as 10 times the standard deviation, were 0.25-5.0 µg kg-1 for ten neonicotinoid insecticides and two metabolites. The average recoveries were in the range of 72.8-106.5%, with relative standard deviations (RSDs) below 13.8%, measured at three concentration levels. The developed method exhibits a high sensitivity and suitable for the simultaneous determination of neonicotinoid insecticides and metabolites in honey and royal-jelly.	1	pesticide
30195392	Mesotrione herbicide does not cause genotoxicity, but modulates the genotoxic effects of Atrazine when assessed in mixture using a plant test system (Allium cepa).	Mesotrione (MES) is an herbicide from the triketone family and has been used as an alternative to Atrazine (ATZ), which was banned in some countries due to its toxicity to non-target organisms. Despite being considered an eco-friendly herbicide, data from the literature about the harmful effects of MES in its pure form and/or in combination with other herbicides is still scarce. Aimed at assessing the potential of MES to induce cell death and DNA damage, seeds of Allium cepa (higher plant, monocotyledon) were exposed to this herbicide, pure and in mixture with ATZ, and the number of dividing cells (cytotoxicity), chromosomal aberrations (CA, genotoxicity) and micronuclei (MN, mutagenicity) were then quantified. The pure MES (1.8 to 460 μg/L) did not show either cytotoxicity or genotoxicity/mutagenicity under the tested conditions. The genotoxicity of ATZ (1.5 to 400 μg/L), previous reported in the literature, was confirmed herein. The assessment of MES + ATZ mixtures (1.8 + 1.5; 7 + 6.25; 30 + 25 μg/L, respectively) showed that MES, at low concentrations, enhance the genotoxicity of ATZ (potentiation), since the significant frequencies of CA and MN were greater than the ones expected in additive effects. Taking together, MES in its pure form seems to be a safe alternative to ATZ regarding the capacity to damage (at cellular and DNA levels) non-target plants (Monocots); however, MES in combination with ATZ appeared to act as a co-mutagen at low concentrations.	1	pesticide
30216815	Field evolved resistance to pyrethroids, neonicotinoids and biopesticides in Dysdercus koenigii (Hemiptera: Pyrrhocoridae) from Punjab, Pakistan.	The red cotton bug, Dysdercus koenigii (Fabricius) is an important emerging economic pest of cotton, Gossypium hirsutum Linnaeus in Pakistan. Insecticides are the primary management tactics to suppress populations of this pest. However, resistance to insecticides evolves due to substantial and repeated applications. The resistance to pyrethroids, neonicotinoids and biopesticides have been evaluated in many pests worldwide, nevertheless lack of information in D. koenigii. Therefore, the aforementioned insecticide resistance in five field populations of D. koenigii collected from Multan, Makhdoom Rashid, Jahanian, Lodhran and Vehari districts of Punjab, Pakistan during 2015-2017 was determined by using seed dip method. Based on the present results, D. koenigii has developed moderate to very high resistance to acetamiprid (RR = 33-433) and imidacloprid (RR = 21-173), low to high resistance to emamectin benzoate (RR = 14-52), and very low to high resistance to spinosad (RR = 4.13-54), compared to the susceptible population. However, all field populations of D. koenigii remained susceptible to deltamethrin (RR = 0.62-2.17) and lambda-cyhalothrin (RR = 0.91-1.97). A rotational use of pyrethroids with provision of other integrated pest management tactics is recommended to manage insecticide resistance in D. koenigii.	1	pesticide
30228990	Insecticide Resistance and Its Intensity in Populations of Malaria Vectors in Colombia.	Insecticide resistance in malaria vectors threatens malaria prevention and control efforts. In Colombia the three primary vectors, Anopheles darlingi, An. nuneztovari s.l., and An. albimanus, have reported insecticide resistance to pyrethroids, organophosphates, carbamates, and DDT; however, the insecticide resistance monitoring is not continuous, and the data on the prevalence of resistance is scarce and geographically limited. We describe the resistance levels and intensity of previously detected resistant populations among primary malaria vectors from the most endemic malaria areas in Colombia. The study was carried out in 10 localities of five states in Colombia. Bioassays were carried out following the methodology of CDC Bottle Bioassay using the discriminating concentration and in order to quantify the intensity the specimens were exposed to 2, 5, and 10X discriminating concentrations. Five insecticides were tested: deltamethrin, lambda-cyhalothrin, alpha-cypermethrin, permethrin, and DDT. The results provide evidence of low resistance intensity and resistance highly localized to pyrethroids and DDT in key malaria vectors in Colombia. This may not pose a threat to malaria control yet but frequent monitoring is needed to follow the evolution of insecticide resistance.	1	pesticide
30229068	The assembled transcriptome of the adult horn fly, Haematobia irritans.	The horn fly, Haematobia irritans irritans (Linnaeus, 1758; Diptera: Muscidae), a hematophagous external parasite of cattle, causes considerable economic losses to the livestock industry worldwide. This pest is mainly controlled with insecticides; however, horn fly populations from several countries have developed resistance to many of the products available for their control. In an attempt to better understand the adult horn fly and the development of resistance in natural populations, we used an Illumina paired-end read HiSeq and GAII approach to determine the transcriptomes of untreated control adult females, untreated control adult males, permethrin-treated surviving adult males and permethrin + piperonyl butoxide-treated killed adult males from a Louisiana population of horn flies with a moderate level of pyrethroid resistance. A total of 128,769,829, 127,276,458, 67,653,920, and 64,270,124 quality-filtered Illumina reads were obtained for untreated control adult females, untreated control adult males, permethrin-treated surviving adult males and permethrin + piperonyl butoxide-treated killed adult males, respectively. The de novo assemblies using CLC Genomics Workbench 8.0.1 yielded 15,699, 11,961, 2672, 7278 contigs (≥ 200 nt) for untreated control adult females, untreated control adult males, permethrin-treated surviving adult males and permethrin + piperonyl butoxide-treated killed adult males, respectively. More than 56% of the assembled contigs of each data set had significant hits in the BlastX (UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot database) (E <0.001). The number of contigs in each data set with InterProScan, GO mapping, Enzyme codes and KEGG pathway annotations were: Untreated Control Adult Females - 10,331, 8770, 2963, 2183; Untreated control adult males - 8392, 7056, 2449, 1765; Permethrin-treated surviving adult males - 1992, 1609, 641, 495; Permethrin + PBO-treated killed adult males - 5561, 4463, 1628, 1211.	1	pesticide
30239593	Evaluation of Dermal Exposure to the Herbicide Alachlor Among Vegetable Farmers in Thailand.	Vegetable farmers applying the herbicide alachlor may be highly exposed through dermal contact when spraying. Dermal patches were attached to 10 locations on the farmers' skin when they mixed and applied alachlor in vegetable farming areas in Thailand. Measurements were made on farmers using either a backpack sprayer with a 2 stroke gasoline motor and fan or a battery operated pump. Forty-seven vegetable farmers in Bungphra subdistrict of Thailand participated in this study. Both motorized and battery pump backpack sprayers wearing long-sleeve shirts had significantly lower alachlor concentrations on the dermal patches under their long-sleeve shirts compared to those who wore only short-sleeve shirts, regardless of the sprayer type. Moreover, sprayers wearing long pants had significantly lower alachlor concentrations on dermal patches placed under the pants on the lower legs than those wearing short pants, regardless of the sprayer type. The highest estimated alachlor exposures were found on the upper legs (median = 9.29 µg/h) for those using a 2 stroke engine/fan backpack sprayer and on the lower legs (2.87 µg/h) for those using the battery operated pump backpack sprayer. The estimated total body alachlor exposures of applicators using the 2 stroke engine/fan backpack sprayer (219.48 µg/h) were significantly higher than those using the battery operated pump backpack sprayer (15.50 µg/h). Using long-sleeve shirts as personal protection reduced alachlor exposures for the arms 97-99% and wearing long pants reduced alachlor exposure to the legs for 81-99%. Thus, training about the protection provided by clothing choices would be one step in improving the health and safety of Thai farmers.	1	pesticide
30245345	Effects of imidacloprid and a neonicotinoid mixture on aquatic invertebrate communities under Mediterranean conditions.	Neonicotinoid insecticides are considered contaminants of concern due to their high toxicity potential to non-target terrestrial and aquatic organisms. In this study we evaluated the sensitivity of aquatic invertebrates to a single application of imidacloprid and an equimolar mixture of five neonicotinoids (imidacloprid, acetamiprid, thiacloprid, thiamethoxam, clothianidin) using mesocosms under Mediterranean conditions. Cyclopoida, Cloeon dipterum and Chironomini showed the highest sensitivity to neonicotinoids, with calculated NOECs below 0.2 μg/L. The sensitivity of these taxa was found to be higher than that reported in previous studies performed under less warm conditions, proving the high influence of temperature on neonicotinoid toxicity. The short-term responses of the zooplankton and the macroinvertebrate communities to similar imidacloprid and neonicotinoid mixture concentrations were very similar, suggesting that the concentration addition model can be used as a plausible hyphotesis to assess neonicotinoid mixture effects in aquatic ecosystems. Long-term mixture toxicity assessments, however, should consider the fate of the evaluated substances in the environment of concern. As part of this study, we also demonstrated that Species Sensitivity Distributions constructed with chronic laboratory toxicity data and calculated (multi-substance) Potentially Affected Fractions provide an accurate estimation to asssess the ecotoxicologial risks of imidacloprid and neonicotinoid mixtures to aquatic invertebrate species assemblages.	1	pesticide
30251514	[Rapid determination of benzidine, picric acid, carbaryl, atrazine, and deltamethrin in surface water by ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry].	A method requiring no pre-treatment steps other than filtration, using ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS), has been developed and applied for the rapid determination of benzidine, picric acid, carbaryl, atrazine, and deltamethrin residues in surface water. Water samples were filtered with a 0.2-μ m syringe filter for particle removal and injected directly into the UPLC instrument. The separation was performed on a Waters Acquity UPLC HSS T3 column utilizing a gradient elution program of methanol (containing 2 mmol/L ammonium acetate) and water (containing 2 mmol/L ammonium acetate) as the mobile phases at a flow rate of 0.4 mL/min. The detection was accomplished by multiple-reaction monitoring scanning in positive/negative ion-switching electrospray ionization mode. Good linearity was observed in the range 0.10-10.0 μ g/L or 1.00-100 μ g/L for different targets with correlation coefficients of 0.996-0.999. The limits of detection (LODs) were 0.01-0.22 μ g/L. The recoveries ranged between 81.4% and 113% at three spiked levels with relative standard deviations (n=6) between 0.84% and 14.0%. The developed method was applied to the analysis of surface waters (river water and reservoir water) from Hangzhou; atrazine and deltamethrin were detected in part of the analyzed samples. This proposed method was characterized by high sensitivity and precision, extensive analytical range, and a high analytical rate, and showed suitability for the analysis of the five named pollutants in surface water.	1	pesticide
30290195	Biological impacts of organophosphates chlorpyrifos and diazinon on development, mitochondrial bioenergetics, and locomotor activity in zebrafish (Danio rerio).	The objectives of this study were to compare the biological responses in developing zebrafish to two organophosphate insecticides, chlorpyrifos (CPF) and diazinon (DZN). Zebrafish embryos were exposed to either solvent control (0.1% DMSO, v/v), or one dose of 0.1, 1.0, 10.0 and 25.0 μM CPF, as well as one dose of 0.1, 1.0, 10.0 and 100.0 μM DZN for 96 h. CPF at 10.0 and 25.0 μM caused 70-80% and 100% mortality in embryos after 96 h exposure, whereas embryos treated with 10.0 and 100.0 μM DZN showed 30-40% and 70-80% lethality. CPF at 10.0 μM significantly decreased cumulative hatching rate, whereas hatching rate was significantly reduced in embryos treated with 100.0 μM DZN. Spinal lordosis was primarily observed in larvae exposed to 1.0 and 10.0 μM CPF, whereas pericardial edema was mainly detected with 10.0 and 100.0 μM DZN exposure. Embryo exposed to 1.0, 10.0 and 25.0 μM CPF exhibited no mitochondrial dysfunction; exposure to 100.0 μM DZN significantly inhibited mitochondrial bioenergetics. To determine if CPF and DZN affected larval activity, dark photokinesis response was assessed in larvae following 7 days exposure to 0.1 and 1.0 μM CPF, as well as to 0.1 1.0, and 10.0 μM DZN. Larvae exposed to 1.0 μM CPF showed hypoactivity, whereas the activity in the dark was not overtly changed in larvae exposed to DZN. In summary, CPF showed higher developmental toxicity compared to DZN. Moreover, based on the types of morphological deformities noted, as well as differences in locomotor activity, we conclude that OPs have unique chemical-specific modes of action that can result in varied biological responses during early development.	1	pesticide
30290855	Use of Magnesium Silicate as a New Type of Adsorbent for Dispersive Solid-Phase Extraction Cleanup of the Quick, Cheap, Effective, Rugged, and Safe Method for Pesticides During Analysis of Lager Beer by Gas Chromatography-Tandem Mass Spectrometry.	Background: Pesticides are applied for pest control during the production of cereal grains used in beer production. Given the risks for consumers, it is important to analyze the pesticide residues. Objective: Quick, easy, cheap, effective, rugged, and safe (QuEChERS)-based methods are very effective, and improvement in the cleanup step is an important approach. Methods: Primary secondary amine (PSA) and magnesium silicate were evaluated for dispersive-solid-phase extraction (d-SPE) cleanup step in extracts provided by the QuEChERS method in combination with GC-tandem MS for the determination of acetamiprid, terburfos, alachlor, ametryn, atrazine, azoxystrobin, carbofuran, carbosulfan, cypermethrin, deltamethrin, difenoconazole, esfenvalerate, flutriafol, thiamethoxam, and parathion-methyl in lager beer. Results: The amount of 50 mg of magnesium silicate was suitable for cleaning up beer extract as an alternative d-SPE material to PSA. The method was validated using beer fortified with pesticides at three concentration levels (0.002, 0.01, and 0.1 μg/mL). Average recoveries ranged from 70 to 123%, with RSDs between 0.3 and 10.5 %. Matrix effects were observed by comparing the slope of matrix-matched standard calibration with that of solvent. The method provided good linearity at the concentration levels of 0.001-2.5 μg/mL. Detection limits ranged from 0.0001 to 0.0007 μg/mL and quantification limits ranged from 0.001 to 0.006 μg/mL. The method was applied to nine beer brands. Conclusions: Results showed that magnesium silicate is an efficient alternative cleanup material to reduce analysis costs while maintaining the method reliability and accuracy. Highlights: Magnesium silicate was effective as adsorbent for d-SPE step in the analysis of pesticides in beer.	1	pesticide
30302567	A needle-like reusable surface-enhanced Raman scattering substrate, and its application to the determination of acetamiprid by combining SERS and thin-layer chromatography.	A micro surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) substrate has been fabricated by electrochemical deposition of dendrite-like gold on carbon fiber needles (Au-CFNs). Scanning electron microscopy and energy dispersive spectroscopy were used to confirm the presence of the gold nanostructure on the CFNs. This substrate has a Raman scattering enhancement factor as high as 3.3 × 10^7 when using rhodamine 6G as the reporter molecule. The high SERS sensitivity is attributed to the massive hotspots on gold bulges that enhance the local surface plasmon resonance. The Au-CFN substrate was reproduced 10 times after electrochemically wiping off the analytes from the needle-like electrode. The substrate has attractive features such as convenient sampling, low sample dosage, and minimal invasion. It was applied, in combination with thin-layer chromatography, for the determination of acetamiprid on vegetables. The result was more accurate because the sample information of both the surface and the bulk can be obtained at the same time after inserting the tip of this needle substrate into the TLC plate. The limit of detection for acetamiprid is 0.05 μg⋅mL-1 and the linear range is 0.1-10 μg⋅mL-1. Graphical abstract A reusable micro needle-like SERS substrate was fabricated and applied for pesticide residue analysis. The SERS signal of acetamiprid can be acquired on the tip of this micro needle-like Au-CFN substrate. This substrate can be reused for 10 times.	1	pesticide
30308298	Atrazine exposure triggers common carp neutrophil apoptosis via the CYP450s/ROS pathway.	Due to the excessive pursuit of crop yields and the abuse of herbicides, water pollution caused by atrazine (ATR) has become one of the most severe environmental issues threatening the health of fish and aquatic animals. However, no detailed report has been conducted on the mechanisms of ATR immunotoxicity in fish neutrophils. To investigate these mechanism, we exposed peripheral blood neutrophils to 25 μg/ml atrazine for 1, 2, and 3 h. The results showed that ATR induced the mRNA expression of CYPs enzymes (CYP1A1, CYP1B1, CYP1C and CYP3A138), which increased the ROS levels, and inhibited the SOD and CAT activities, GSH content and spurred the accumulation of MDA. Additionally, a significant decline in the OXPHOS, Na+-K+-ATPase and Ca2+-Mg2+-ATPase activities of mitochondria was observed after ATR exposure. Concurrently, ATR activated Caspase3 and induced apoptosis by changing the expression of mitochondrial pathway factors (Bcl-2, BAX, Caspase9) and death receptor pathway major genes (TNF-α, TNFR, Fas, FasL, and Caspase8). The results reported here indicate that the oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage caused by ATR metabolism may play a crucial role in the apoptosis of carp neutrophils, and enrich the immunotoxicological mechanisms of ATR observed in fish.	1	pesticide
30308880	Monitoring of the 17 EU Watch List contaminants of emerging concern in the Ave and the Sousa Rivers.	The occurrence of micropollutants in the environment is a matter of high concern. Some regulations have been published in the last years and a Watch List of contaminants of emerging concern (CECs) for European Union monitoring of surface water was launched in the Decision 2015/495, including three estrogens (estrone, E1; 17-β-estradiol, E2; and 17-α-ethinylestradiol, EE2), four pharmaceuticals (diclofenac and the macrolide antibiotics azithromycin, clarithromycin and erythromycin), an anti-oxidant (2,6-ditert-butyl-4-methylphenol, BHT), an UV filter (2-ethylhexyl 4-methoxycinnamate, EHMC), some pesticides (methiocarb and the neonicotinoids imidacloprid, thiacloprid, thiamethoxam, clothianidin and acetamiprid) and two herbicides (oxadiazon and triallate). This study provides the first spatial and seasonal monitoring campaign in the Ave and the Sousa Rivers for the all set of the 17 Watch List CECs (not reported yet for any country), in order to assess their occurrence, distribution, frequency and risk assessment. It also highlights the need of extend the study to other regions and environmental matrices to investigate the occurrence and possible sources of contamination of CECs, aiming to give insights for decision makers to define mitigation strategies for a more sustainable water policy.	1	pesticide
30322427	Comparison of QuEChERS with Traditional Sample Preparation Methods in the Determination of Multiclass Pesticides in Soil.	Background: The increased use of pesticides leads to permanent pollution of soil, and there is a need for continuous monitoring of these agrochemicals in soil. Objective: Three methods for the simultaneous determination of 12 pesticides belonging to eight chemical groups in soil samples were tested and compared based on analytical parameters. Methods: The quick, easy, cheap, effective, rugged, and safe (QuEChERS); traditional solid-liquid extraction (SLE); and Soxhlet extraction were used for soil sample preparation, while detection and quantification of pesticides were performed using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). Results: The tested methods featured good sensitivity, and with the exception for carbofuran (Soxhlet method, LOD = 29 μg/kg), for the rest of the pesticides, the studied LODs were less than 12 μg/kg. Except for simazine and carbofuran, LODs obtained by Soxhlet extraction were lower than values obtained by other two methods, whereas QuEChERS gave lower LODs than the traditional SLE method for all compounds except atrazine and acetochlor. The recoveries obtained applying QuEChERS, traditional SLE, and Soxhlet methods for multiple analyses of soil samples fortified at 10, 75, and 200 μg/kg of each pesticide were in the ranges 54-103, 40-91, and 12-92%, respectively. Except for chlorothalonil, the highest recoveries were obtained by the QuEChERS method. Soxhlet was better than traditional SLE method for chlorothalonil, heptachlor, and aldrin; organophosphorus pesticides (fenitrothion and diazinon) and trifluralin, gave similar recoveries for both methods. All three methods were proven to be repeatable, with RSDs lower than 19%. Conclusions: Although all tested methods showed as satisfactory regarding most analytical parameters, QuEChERS method showed much better results in terms of confidence, indicating that traditional SLE and Soxhlet extraction still need improvements for determination of multiclass pesticides in soil samples.	1	pesticide
30323823	Pesticidal Plant Extracts Improve Yield and Reduce Insect Pests on Legume Crops Without Harming Beneficial Arthropods.	In the fight against arthropod crop pests using plant secondary metabolites, most research has focussed on the identification of bioactive molecules. Several hundred candidate plant species and compounds are now known to have pesticidal properties against a range of arthropod pest species. Despite this growing body of research, few natural products are commercialized for pest management whilst on-farm use of existing botanically-based pesticides remains a small, but growing, component of crop protection practice. Uptake of natural pesticides is at least partly constrained by limited data on the trade-offs of their use on farm. The research presented here assessed the potential trade-offs of using pesticidal plant extracts on legume crop yields and the regulating ecosystem services of natural pests enemies. The application of six established pesticidal plants (Bidens pilosa, Lantana camara, Lippia javanica, Tephrosia vogelii, Tithonia diversifolia, and Vernonia amygdalina) were compared to positive and negative controls for their impact on yields of bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), cowpea (Vigna unguiculata), and pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan) crops and the abundance of key indicator pest and predatory arthropod species. Analysis of field trials showed that pesticidal plant treatments often resulted in crop yields that were comparable to the use of a synthetic pesticide (lambda-cyhalothrin). The best-performing plant species were T. vogelii, T. diversifolia, and L. javanica. The abundance of pests was very low when using the synthetic pesticide, whilst the plant extracts generally had a higher number of pests than the synthetic but lower numbers than observed on the negative controls. Beneficial arthropod numbers were low with synthetic treated crops, whereas the pesticidal plant treatments appeared to have little effect on beneficials when compared to the negative controls. The outcomes of this research suggest that using extracts of pesticidal plants to control pests can be as effective as synthetic insecticides in terms of crop yields while tritrophic effects were reduced, conserving the non-target arthropods that provide important ecosystem services such as pollination and pest regulation. Thus managing crop pests using plant secondary metabolites can be more easily integrated in to agro-ecologically sustainable crop production systems.	1	pesticide
30340276	Occurrence and risk of neonicotinoid insecticides in surface water in a rapidly developing region: Application of polar organic chemical integrative samplers.	Extensive use of neonicotinoid insecticides (NNIs) worldwide calls for further knowledge on their environmental occurrence and risk. The present study highlighted the need for more research on long-term exposure of NNIs in aquatic environment, which is important but remains elusive. Time weighted average concentrations of five commonly used NNIs in urban waterways of Guangzhou, China were measured using newly developed polar organic chemical integrative samplers (POCIS). Acetamiprid (from 18.8 ± 1.9 to 157 ± 31 ng/L; mean ± standard deviation), clothianidin (from 14.8 ± 3.7 to 47.6 ± 10.0 ng/L) and imidacloprid (from 32.9 ± 11.6 to 249 ± 19 ng/L) were detectable in all samples. Thiamethoxam was found at 71.4% of the 21 sampling sites (from not detected to 52.4 ± 9.4 ng/L), while thiacloprid was not detected at any site. Vegetable planting and sewage effluent were the main sources of NNIs in surface water in Guangzhou. Probabilistic environmental exposure distributions were subsequently constructed using the measured concentrations and the exceedances of predicted environmental concentrations of NNI to ecological thresholds were assessed. In Guangzhou, 63.5%, 16.2%, 87.8% and 17.2% of acetamiprid, clothianidin, imidacloprid and thiamethoxam, respectively, exceeded an interim chronic threshold of 35 ng/L for NNIs. Further risk assessment and control measures for the use of NNIs are advocated for protecting the integrity of aquatic ecosystems.	1	pesticide
30341475	Spraying pyrethroid and neonicotinoid insecticides can induce outbreaks of Panonychus citri (Trombidiformes: Tetranychidae) in citrus groves.	Panonychus citri (McGregor) (Trombidiformes: Tetranychidae) is one of the main defoliator mites in citrus groves. In Brazil, P. citri was formerly considered a secondary pest, but in recent years, the population levels of this mite have increased in many groves, requiring additional acaricide applications for its control. The population growth of P. citri is associated with the increase in the number of applications of pyrethroid and neonicotinoid insecticides to control insect citrus pests. This study assessed the effects of pyrethroid (deltamethrin, esfenvalerate, λ-cyhalothrin) and neonicotinoid (imidacloprid and thiamethoxam) insecticides on biological, behavioral and demographic parameters of P. citri. None of the insecticides tested affected larval hatching, but deltamethrin, esfenvalerate, and λ-cyhalothrin reduced the survival of larvae and protonymphs. Deltamethrin, esfenvalerate, and λ-cyhalothrin induced a significant increase in the fecundity of surviving females. Pyrethroids also caused repellency and changed feeding and oviposition preferences. In contrast, imidacloprid and thiamethoxam did not affect the survival of immature stages, but imidacloprid significantly increased fecundity. Imidacloprid and thiamethoxam did not cause any repellent effect or changes in the feeding and oviposition preferences. Based on the demographic parameters, deltamethrin, λ-cyhalothrin, and imidacloprid increased Ro, r, and λ, whereas esfenvalerate and thiamethoxam were similar to the control. Therefore, the use of these insecticides (especially deltamethrin, λ-cyhalothrin, and imidacloprid) requires caution, such as avoiding repeated use of these compounds during the periods of P. citri incidence in citrus groves.	1	pesticide
30350971	Rinsing Tea before Brewing Decreases Pesticide Residues in Tea Infusion.	Rinsing dried tea leaves before brewing is a traditional way of preparing rolled oolong tea in China. This study analyzes how rinsing green, black, and oolong tea before brewing affects the levels of pesticide residues in the tea infusion. Eight representative insecticides of different polarities were tracked, namely, three neonicotinoids (acetamiprid, imidacloprid, and thiamethoxam), two organophosphates (dimethoate and malathion), and three pyrethroids (bifenthrin, β-cypermethrin, and fenvalerate). The results showed that the eight pesticides transferred into the rinse water at rates between 0.2 and 24% after 5, 10, 20, or 30 s. Rinsing tea before brewing reduced the pesticide risk levels by 5-59% in the tea infusion. Five functional components, such as epigallocatechin gallate and caffeine, were reduced by 0-11% in the tea infusion. The results can be used to develop an effective method of rinsing tea before brewing that reduces pesticide exposure risks.	1	pesticide
30352006	Fungicides in red wines produced in South America.	Although recent research has shown that pesticides can remain in wine, there is only legislation regarding the level of pesticides in grapes; no such regulations exist for wine. Therefore, the objective of this work was to evaluate the presence of fungicides in 190 wines produced in southern South America, as well as to present a new method for the quantification of dithiocarbamates. The fungicides were analysed by LC-MS/MS and GC/MS using validated methods according to the SANTE recommendations. The results for dithiocarbamates are expressed in mancozeb equivalents and are reported herein for the first time. Of the 190 wines analysed, 40% had residues from at least one fungicide detected above the LOQ, and 16.3% of the wines contained levels of fungicides above the MRL for grapes. The fungicides most commonly found were dithiocarbamates, azoxystrobin, carbendazim, difenoconazole, dimethomorph and cyprodinil. The new method for quantification of dithiocarbamates presented high accuracy (89.8-108.1%) and precision (HorRat values between: 0.5 - 1.1).	1	pesticide
30363107	Cypermethrin resistance and reproductive types in onion thrips, Thrips tabaci (Thysanoptera: Thripidae).	Cypermethrin resistance and reproductive types were examined for T. tabaci strains. Some arrhenotokous and thelytokous strains encoded the sodium channel mutation (T929I) involved in cypermethrin resistance. However, the resistance levels varied to some degree among the strains. A cytochrome P450 inhibitor, piperonyl butoxide, showed different synergistic effects on the strains examined. These results suggest that fundamental and additional levels of cypermethrin resistance in T. tabaci are conferred respectively by reduced sensitivity of the sodium channel and by cytochrome P450-mediated detoxification.	1	pesticide
30364564	Two-year field data on neonicotinoid concentrations in guttation drops of seed treated maize (Zea mays).	"We present neonicotinoid concentrations in guttation drops of commonly used maize (Zea mays) cultivars, germinated from seeds coated with active substances (a.s.): i) imidacloprid (IMD), ii) clothianidin (CTN) and iii) thiamethoxam (THM) over two growing seasons. In one variant clothianidin was applied as seed granule. The trial took place at the experimental fields of the Julius Kühn-Institut in Berlin in 2010 and 2011. Data from 2010 are related to a presentation of ""Pesticides in guttation droplets following seed treatment - field studies"" (Schenke et al., 2011) [1] presented at the SETAC North America conference and only some figures were used in the ""Scientific opinion on the science behind the development of a risk assessement of plant protection products on bees (Apis mellifera, Bombus spp. and solitary bees)"" (EFSA, 2012) [2]. Only parts of the data from 2011 was presented in relation to the ""Exposure of Coccinellidae to guttation droplets on maize seedlings with seed or granule treatment of neonicotinoids"" (Schenke and Heimbach, 2014) [3]. The article describes the study sites, the variants of treated maize seeds, sample collection and the analytical methods used to quantify the neonicotinoids and relevant metabolites of IMD (5-OH-IMD and IMD-olefine) and of THM (CTN) in guttation drop samples. The complete field data set is publicly available at the OpenAgrar repository under https://doi.org/10.5073/20180907-142020 (Schenke et al., 2018) [4]."	1	pesticide
30364898	Synthesis and biological activity of novel benzimidazole derivatives as potential antifungal agents.	In the present study, a series of novel benzimidazole derivatives containing chrysanthemum acid moieties was designed and synthesized. Preliminary investigation of biological activity indicated that all of the compounds exhibited lower activity than that of beta-cypermethrin against Plutella xylostella and Lipaphis erysimi; meanwhile, they showed good inhibitory activity against Botrytis cinerea and Sclerotinia sclerotiorum in vitro. The fungicidal activity of compound 8a against B. cinerea was approximately equal to that of thiabendazole and was twice as active against S. sclerotiorum as was thiabendazole. In addition, compound 9e displayed the most potent inhibitory activity against both fungi and was almost twice as potent as thiabendazole.	1	pesticide
30371799	Identification and Functional Characterization of Two Sigma Glutathione S-Transferase Genes From Bird Cherry-Oat Aphid (Hemiptera: Aphididae).	The bird cherry-oat aphid, Rhopalosiphum padi (L.), is an insect pest that persistently attacks wheat crops worldwide. Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are important detoxification enzymes that play roles in insecticide resistance. In this study, we identified two GST genes (RpGSTS1 and RpGSTS2) from R. padi. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that the genes are associated with the sigma class of insect GSTs. The RpGSTS1 and RpGSTS2 contain nine α-helices and five β-sheets connected by loops, and had 60 and 50% homology with the 3D structure of the Blattella germanica GST5. We tested the toxicity of chlorpyrifos, imidacloprid, isoprocarb, sulfoxaflor, and λ-cyhalothrin to R. padi, and found that the toxicity of five insecticides to the aphid varied. The detoxification activity of GSTs and the expression patterns of RpGSTS1 and RpGSTS2 after insecticide treatments were also analyzed. Compared to the control, the GST activity was increased by 23, 18.5, 13, and 11.5% in aphids treated by LC50 concentrations of chlorpyrifos, isoprocarb, imidacloprid, and sulfoxaflor, respectively. Exposure to different chemical insecticides showed different effects on the expression of RpGSTS1 and RpGSTS2. These results indicate that RpGSTS1 and RpGSTS2 have unique biochemical characteristics and may play roles in resistance to insecticides in R. padi.	1	pesticide
30378619	Selective signalling of glyphosate in water using europium luminescence.	A series of four emissive europium complexes has been evaluated for the binding of glyphosate in various aqueous media, including river water and grain extracts. Binding selectivity toward inorganic phosphate and bicarbonate was enhanced by measuring samples at pH 5.9, above the pKa of glyphosate itself. The highest affinity was shown with [Eu·L1], which creates an exocyclic tripicolylamine moiety when one pyridine group dissociates from Eu. Glyphosate was bound selectively over dihydrogenphosphate, glycinate, aminomethylphosphonate and the related herbicide glufosinate. The complex was used to measure glyphosate over the range 5 to 50 μM, in river water and grain extracts.	1	pesticide
30396141	Lambda-cyhalothrin affects swimming activity and physiological responses of Daphnia magna.	λ-cyhalotrin is a pyrethroid pesticide used for protection of crops against various insect pests. Knowledge on behavioural and physiological responses of non-target organisms such as cladocerans is very limited. Daphnia is a sensitive organism commonly used in determination of ecotoxicological risk for various substances introduced to aquatic environment, however the main experimental endpoints used such as mortality or immobilisation may not be sufficient to evaluate subtle alterations in zooplankton. The aim of the present study was to evaluate swimming behaviour and physiological parameters of Daphnia magna exposed to λ-cyhalothrin (Karate Zeon 050 CS) at concentrations of 0.05, 0.5, 5 and 50 μg L-1 for 2, 24 and 48 h. The results showed that λ-cyhalothrin affected D. magna swimming behaviour inducing a concentration-dependent inhibition of swimming track density, speed and turning ability. Depression of physiological parameters such as heart rate and thoracic limb activity was also noted. The results suggest that in natural conditions swimming behaviour and physiological endpoints of D. magna may be disturbed by environmental concentrations of λ-cyhalothrin leading to ecological consequences.	1	pesticide
30397935	An investigation of the molecular and biochemical basis underlying chlorantraniliprole-resistant Drosophila strains and their cross-resistance to other insecticides.	Chlorantraniliprole is an anthranilic diamide insecticide that binds to the insect ryanodine receptor (RyR) and induces an uncontrolled release of Ca2+ , resulting in paralysis and ultimately death of the target insects. Recently, it was reported that chlorantraniliprole-resistant diamondback moths, Plutella xylostella Linnaeus, have mutations in their RyR. In this study, we developed two different chlorantraniliprole-resistant Drosophila melanogaster strain. The resistance ratio (RR) of the low-concentration chlorantraniliprole-treated resistant (Low-Res) strain was 2.3, while that of the high-concentration chlorantraniliprole-treated resistant (High-Res) strain was 21.3. The LC 50 of the untreated control (Con) strain was 23.8~25.9 ppm, which was significantly higher than that reported for the susceptible diamondback moth (0.03~0.51 ppm). The high LC 50 of the Con may be because the helix S2 amino acid sequence of D. melanogaster RyR ( DmRyR) is identical to the I4790M mutation of the chlorantraniliprole-resistant diamondback moths, resulting in a lower binding affinity of DmRyR for chlorantraniliprole. Among the tested detoxification enzymes, the activity of esterase was significantly increased in the two Res strains, but glutathione S-transferases and acetylcholinesterase were significantly decreased in the two Res strains. The cross-resistance of the High-Res strain to other insecticides with different modes of actions (MoAs) revealed that the RRs of the neuronal acetylcholine receptor allosteric and competitive modulators were significantly increased, while those of the Na 2+ channel modulators were significantly reduced. Our studies showed that RRs against the same insecticide vary with the treatment concentration, and that RRs against other insecticides with different MoAs can be altered.	1	pesticide
30408860	Neonicotinoid insecticide mixtures: Evaluation of laboratory-based toxicity predictions under semi-controlled field conditions.	Neonicotinoid insecticide mixtures are frequently detected in aquatic environments in agricultural regions. Recent laboratory studies have indicated that neonicotinoid mixtures can elicit greater-than-additive toxicity in sensitive aquatic insects (e.g. Chironomus dilutus). However, this has yet to be validated under field conditions. In this study, we compared the chronic (28- and 56-day) toxicity of three neonicotinoids (imidacloprid, clothianidin, and thiamethoxam) and their mixtures to natural aquatic insect communities. Using experimental in-situ enclosures (limnocorrals), we exposed wetland insects to single-compounds and binary mixtures at equitoxic concentrations (1 toxic unit under the principle of Concentration Addition). We assessed the composition of all emerged insect taxa and the cumulative Chironomidae emergence and biomass over time. In treated limnocorrals, there were subtle shifts in community composition, with greater mean proportions of emergent Trichoptera and Odonata. Cumulative emergence and biomass increased over time and there was a significant interaction between time and treatment. At 28 days, cumulative Chironomidae emergence and biomass were not significantly different between neonicotinoid treatments and controls. However, cumulative emergence in the imidacloprid, clothianidin, and clothianidin-thiamethoxam treatments were 42%, 20%, and 44% lower than predicted from applied doses. At 56 days, effects on cumulative emergence and biomass were significant for imidacloprid, clothianidin, and the clothianidin-thiamethoxam mixture. Contrary to laboratory predictions, mixtures were not more toxic than single compounds under semi-controlled field settings. Furthermore, only clothianidin significantly shifted sex-ratios towards female-dominated populations. Results showed that the responses of natural Chironomidae populations to neonicotinoids and their mixtures cannot be adequately predicted from laboratory-derived single-species models, and although occasional overdosing may have influenced the magnitude of effects, reductions in Chironomidae emergence and biomass can occur at average neonicotinoid concentrations below some current water quality guidelines. Therefore, neonicotinoid guidelines should be revised to ensure that Chironomidae and other sensitive aquatic insects inhabiting agricultural wetlands are adequately protected.	1	pesticide
30419380	Where has the pollution gone? A survey of organic contaminants in Ho Chi Minh city / Saigon River (Vietnam) bed sediments.	A wide range of persistent organic chemicals, including polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), some insecticides, as well as polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) and some perfluoroalkyl substances (PFASs) were analyzed in 17 bed sediments collected along the Saigon River and at adjacent canal mouths from upstream to downstream in Ho Chi Minh City (Vietnam). Concentrations were rather low for PAHs, as well as for legacy PCBs and dichloro-diphenyl-trichlorethane and metabolites (DDTs), or below detection limits for several PFASs and all PBDEs measured. Several insecticides (chlorpyrifos-ethyl, and the pyrethroids cypermethrin and λ-cyhalothrin) displayed rather high concentrations at a few sites within the city. There was no distinct upstream - downstream trend for PAHs, (DDTs) or PCBs. Although adjacent canal sediments tended to be more contaminated than Saigon River sediments, the differences were not significant. Emissions are almost certainly substantial for PAHs, and probably also for other contaminants such as PBDEs and some PFASs. During the dry season, contaminants are presumably stored in the city, either in canals or on urban surfaces. Heavy rainfall during the monsoon period carries away contaminated particle flows into the canals and then the Saigon River. The strong tidal influence in the river channel hinders the accumulation of contaminated particles. Contaminated deposits should accordingly be investigated further downstream in depositional environments, such as the mangrove.	1	pesticide
30439641	A novel optical sensor based on carbon dots embedded molecularly imprinted silica for selective acetamiprid detection.	A molecularly imprinted polymer (MIP) on silane-doped carbon dots (Si-CDs) has been synthesized as a novel optical sensor for selective detection of acetamiprid (ACT). Highly fluorescence Si-CDs have been first prepared by hydrothermal method. Subsequently, MIP has been formed on the surface of Si-CDs (MIP@Si-CDs) by a sol-gel process. The properties and structure of the Si-CDs and MIP@Si-CD nanocomposites have been characterized by fluorescence spectroscopy, UV-Vis absorption spectroscopy, transmission electron microscopy, dynamic light scattering, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, and X-ray diffraction techniques. Various parameters, which affect the optical signal, have been optimized. The fluorescence signal of MIP@Si-CDs showed linear response with ACT concentration in the 7-107 nM range with a detection limit of 2 nM and a precision of 2.7% and 3.3% for five replicate detections of 17 and 33 nM ACT under optimal conditions. In addition, the sensor has been satisfactorily utilized for the detection of ACT content in real samples.	1	pesticide
30445137	Dissipation behavior and dietary risk assessment of lambda-cyhalothrin, thiamethoxam and its metabolite clothianidin in apple after open field application.	The dissipation dynamics and residue amounts of lambda-cyhalothrin, thiamethoxam and clothianidin in apple were investigated by using rapid resolution liquid chromatography triple quadrupole mass spectrometer (RRLC-MS/MS) and gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The developed method performed satisfactory recoveries of 88%-105% and the limit of quantitation (LOQ) was 0.01 mg kg-1. The suspension concentrate (SC) formulation of lambda-cyhalothrin and thiamethoxam was applied on apple field in accordance with good agricultural practice (GAP). The half-lives of two pesticides ranged from 7.01 d to 17.3 d and the terminal residues were <0.01-0.21 mg kg-1. Based on the Chinese dietary pattern, the dietary risk of lambda-cyhalothrin and total thiamethoxam were predicted by comparing intake amounts with the toxicological data, namely acceptable daily intake (ADI) and acute reference dose (ARfD). The chronic and acute risk quotients were 0.1080-0.4463 and 0.0008-0.2005, respectively, which showed negligible risk for general consumers. The pre-harvest interval (PHI) of 21 d was suggested for the formulation in compliance with maximum residue limit (MRL) and dietary risk assessment, meanwhile, the MRL of 0.1 mg kg-1 was recommended for thiamethoxam in apple. These results were vital for guiding reasonable usage of two insecticides and for approval of formulation use.	1	pesticide
30447473	An adaptive transgenerational effect of warming but not of pesticide exposure determines how a pesticide and warming interact for antipredator behaviour.	The impact of pesticides on organisms may strongly depend on temperature. While many species will be exposed to pesticides and warming both in the parental and offspring generations, transgenerational effects of pesticides under warming are still poorly studied, particularly for behaviour. We therefore studied the single and combined effects of exposure to the pesticide chlorpyrifos (CPF) and warming both within and across generations on antipredator behaviour of larvae of the vector mosquito Culex pipiens. Within each generation pesticide exposure and warming reduced the escape diving time, making the larvae more susceptible to predation. Pesticide exposure of the parents did not affect offspring antipredator behaviour. Yet, parental exposure to warming determined how warming and the pesticide interacted in the offspring generation. When parents were reared at 24 °C, warming no longer reduced offspring diving times in the solvent control, suggesting an adaptive transgenerational effect to prepare the offspring to better deal with a higher predation risk under warming. Related to this, the CPF-induced reduction in diving time was stronger at 20 °C than at 24 °C, except in the offspring whose parents had been exposed to 24 °C. This dependency of the widespread interaction between warming and pesticide exposure on an adaptive transgenerational effect of warming is an important finding at the interface of global change ecology and ecotoxicology.	1	pesticide
30454052	Field effectiveness and safety of fluralaner plus moxidectin (Bravecto® Plus) against ticks and fleas: a European randomized, blinded, multicenter field study in naturally-infested client-owned cats.	BACKGROUND: A spot-on formulation containing fluralaner (280 mg/ml) plus moxidectin (14 mg/ml) (Bravecto® Plus) has been developed to provide broad spectrum parasite protection for cats. The effectiveness and safety of this product against ticks and fleas was assessed in a randomized, controlled, 12-week study in client-owned cats in Germany and Spain. METHODS: Eligible households containing at least one cat with at least two fleas and/or two ticks were allocated randomly in a 2:1 ratio to a single treatment with fluralaner plus moxidectin on Day 0, or three 4-weekly treatments with fipronil (Frontline®). Veterinary staff, masked to treatment, completed tick and flea counts on each cat at 14 ± 2 (2 weeks), 28 ± 2 (4 weeks), 56 ± 2 (8 weeks) and 84 ± 2 days (12 weeks) after the initial treatment. RESULTS: In total, 707 cats (257 with ticks) from 332 households (236 with fleas) were included. Ixodes ricinus (78%) and Rhipicephalus sanguineus complex (18%) ticks were the most commonly identified. Tick and flea counts were lower in the fluralaner plus moxidectin group than in the fipronil group throughout the study and the efficacy of fluralaner plus moxidectin exceeded 97 and 98%, respectively. At 12 weeks, 94.1 and 93.3% of cats from the fluralaner plus moxidectin and 92.2 and 60.3% of cats from the fipronil group were free of ticks and fleas, respectively. Fluralaner plus moxidectin was non-inferior to fipronil (P < 0.0001) at all assessments and superior to fipronil at 2 and 8 weeks for the proportion of cats free of ticks (P < 0.0001). Fluralaner plus moxidectin was superior to fipronil for the proportion of both households and cats free of fleas (P < 0.0001). Both products were safe and well tolerated. CONCLUSIONS: A single application of fluralaner plus moxidectin spot-on was well tolerated by cats and highly effective for 12 weeks against ticks and fleas. Fluralaner plus moxidectin was non-inferior to fipronil for the proportion of ectoparasite-free and consistently superior to fipronil in controlling fleas.	1	pesticide
30471186	Transcription factor FTZ-F1 and cis-acting elements mediate expression of CYP6BG1 conferring resistance to chlorantraniliprole in Plutella xylostella.	BACKGROUND: Cytochrome P450-mediated detoxification plays an important role in the development of insecticide resistance. Previous studies have demonstrated that overexpression of CYP6BG1 was responsible for permethrin resistance in Plutella xylostella, and our experiments also showed that upregulation of this gene is associated with chlorantraniliprole resistance in P. xylostella. However, the transcriptional regulation involved in the expression of CYP6BG1 remains unknown. To further investigate the regulation of CYP6BG1 expression, the promoters of this gene were cloned and analyzed from one susceptible and four different resistant populations of P. xylostella. RESULTS: First, the promoter region of P. xylostella CYP6BG1 was compared in five populations, and three types of 5'-flanking region were found. Second, the region between -562 and +49 of CYP6BG1 in a field population (TH) of P. xylostella showed the highest promoter activity and could be induced by chlorantraniliprole. Third, the transcriptional factor FTZ-F1, which is an orphan nuclear receptor and binds to the fushi tarazu (ftz) gene, was predicted by the online software Alggen and Jaspar. It was proved to regulate the expression of CYP6BG1 by RNAi. The expression levels of FTZ-F1 and CYP6BG1 could be induced by chlorantraniliprole and were significantly higher in the resistant populations. CONCLUSIONS: These data give a better understanding of the transcriptional regulation of an important insecticide detoxification enzyme gene, and therefore will help in understanding the molecular mechanisms of insecticide resistance in P. xylostella. © 2018 Society of Chemical Industry.	1	pesticide
30478776	Effect of Sub-lethal Doses of Imidacloprid on Learning and Memory Formation of Indigenous Arabian Bee (Apis mellifera jemenitica Ruttner) Adult Foragers.	The indigenous bee race Apis mellifera jemenitica Ruttner of Saudi Arabia can learn and retain memories established by the classical conditioning of proboscis extension response (PER). The insecticide imidacloprid has shown a drastic effect on the olfactory behavior of A. m. jemenitica in the harsh arid climatic conditions of central Saudi Arabia. The oral feeding of single imidacloprid sub-lethal doses (1.0 ng, 0.5 ng, or 0.1 ng) under laboratory conditions significantly impaired associative learning during the 2nd and 3rd conditioning trials compared to control bees (0 ng). The memory tests also revealed significant impairment in memory formation at 1 h, 2 h, and 24 h after conditioning compared to control bees. Even the lowest dose (0.1 ng/bee) can significantly impair the bees' ability to learn and memorize. This impairment effect was dose dependent and increased with increasing doses. The higher dose (1.0 ng) completely impaired the learning but still showed a little memory and reflected the potential recovery of bees from insecticide-induced impairment with the passage of time. To our knowledge, this is the first study in A. m. jemenitica that demonstrated the drastic effect of neonicotinoids on associative learning in indigenous bees. This study further expresses the possible severity of insecticidal exposure to bees in actual field conditions and its effect on the neural functions used in important behavior involved in the foraging of bees.	1	pesticide
30542966	Effects of neonicotinoids on the emergence and composition of chironomids in the Prairie Pothole Region.	The use of neonicotinoid pesticides is widespread throughout agricultural regions, including the Prairie Pothole Region of North America. The occurrence of these pesticides to the abundant adjacent wetlands can result in impacts on nontarget insects, and cascading effects through wetland ecosystems. In the current study, field-based mesocosms were used to investigate the effects of multiple pulses of the neonicotinoid imidacloprid on the emergence and chironomid community composition, in an effort to simulate episodic rain events to Prairie Pothole Wetlands. Sediments from two local wetlands were placed into the mesocosm tanks and three imidacloprid pulses added, each 1 week apart at nominal concentrations of 0.2, 2.0, and 20 μg/L. Overall, a significant decrease in the emergence of adult chironomids was observed within the 2.0 μg/L and greater concentrations, with the subfamilies Chironominae and Tanypodinae showing a greater sensitivity than the members of the subfamily Orthocladiinae. The chironomid community also had a dose-related response, followed by a recovery of the community composition near the end of the experiment. Our results provide additional evidence that repeated pulses of imidacloprid may have effects on chironomids and other sensitive aquatic insects living within Prairie Pothole Wetlands, resulting in reduced food availability. We stress the need for continued monitoring of US surface waters for neonicotinoid compounds and the continuation of additional experiments looking into the impacts on aquatic communities.	1	pesticide
30583045	Chronic exposure of bumblebees to neonicotinoid imidacloprid suppresses the entire mevalonate pathway and fatty acid synthesis.	Determining the side effects of pesticides on pollinators is an important topic due to the increasing loss of pollinators. We aimed to determine the effects of chronic sublethal exposure of the neonicotinoid pesticide imidacloprid on the bumblebee Bombus terrestris under laboratory conditions. The analytical standard of imidacloprid in sugar solution was used for the treatment. Verification of pesticides using UHPLC-QqQ-MS/MS in the experimental bumblebees showed the presence of only two compounds, imidacloprid and imidacloprid-olefin, which were found in quantities of 0.57 ± 0.22 and 1.95 ± 0.43 ng/g, respectively. Thus, the level of the dangerous metabolite imidacloprid-olefin was 3.4-fold higher than that of imidacloprid. Label-free nanoLC-MS/MS quantitative proteomics of bumblebee heads enabled quantitative comparison of 2883 proteins, and 206 proteins were significantly influenced by the imidacloprid treatment. The next analysis revealed that the highly downregulated markers are members of the terpenoid backbone biosynthesis pathway (KEGG: bter00900) and that imidacloprid treatment suppressed the entire mevalonate pathway, fatty acid synthesis and associated markers. The proteomics results indicate that the consequences of imidacloprid treatment are complex, and the marker changes are associated with metabolic and neurological diseases and olfaction disruption. This study provides important markers and can help to explain the widely held assumptions from biological observations. SIGNIFICANCE: The major finding is that all markers of the mevalonate pathway were substantially downregulated due to the chronic imidacloprid exposure. The disbalance of mevalonate pathway has many important consequences. We suggest the mechanism associated with the novel toxicogenic effect of imidacloprid. The results are helpful to explain that imidacloprid impairs the cognitive functions and possesses the delayed and time cumulative effect.	1	pesticide
30590257	Aryl H-phosphonates. 19. New anti-HIV pronucleotide phosphoramidate diesters containing amino- and hydroxypyridine auxiliaries.	We have designed a new type of AZT and ddU phosphoramidate diesters containing various combinations of 2-, 3-, 4-aminopyridine and 2-, 3-, 4-hydroxypyridine moieties attached to the phosphorus center, as potential anti-HIV pronucleotides. Depending on the pKa values of the aminopyridines and the hydroxypyridines used, alternative synthetic strategies based on H-phosphonate chemistry were developed for their preparation. Synthetic aspects of these transformations and the biological activity of the synthesized compounds are discussed.	1	pesticide
30592382	Maternal residential exposure to specific agricultural pesticide active ingredients and birth defects in a 2003-2005 North Carolina birth cohort.	BACKGROUND: Previously we observed elevated odds ratios (ORs) for total pesticide exposure and 10 birth defects: three congenital heart defects and structural defects affecting the gastrointestinal, genitourinary and musculoskeletal systems. This analysis examines association of those defects with exposure to seven commonly applied pesticide active ingredients. METHODS: Cases were live-born singleton infants from the North Carolina Birth Defects Monitoring Program linked to birth records for 2003-2005; noncases served as controls (total n = 304,906). Pesticide active ingredient exposure was assigned using a previously constructed metric based on crops within 500 m of residence, dates of pregnancy, and likely chemical application dates for each pesticide-crop combination. ORs (95% CI) were estimated with logistic regression for categories of exposure compared to unexposed. Models were adjusted for maternal race/ethnicity, age at delivery, education, marital status, and smoking status. RESULTS: Associations varied by birth defect and pesticide combinations. For example, hypospadias was positively associated with exposures to 2,4-D (OR50th to <90th percentile : 1.39 [1.18, 1.64]), mepiquat (OR50th to <90th percentile : 1.10 [0.90, 1.34]), paraquat (OR50th to <90th : 1.14 [0.93, 1.39]), and pendimethalin (OR50th to <90th : 1.21 [1.01, 1.44]), but not S-metolachlor (OR50th to <90th : 1.00 [0.81, 1.22]). Whereas atrial septal defects were positively associated with higher levels of exposure to glyphosate, cyhalothrin, S-metolachlor, mepiquat, and pendimethalin (ORs ranged from 1.22 to 1.35 for 50th to <90th exposures, and 1.72 to 2.09 for >90th exposures); associations with paraquat were null or inconsistent (OR 50th to <90th: 1.05 (0.87, 1.27). CONCLUSION: Our results suggest differing patterns of association for birth defects with residential exposure to seven pesticide active ingredients in North Carolina.	1	pesticide
30597243	A higher efficiency removal of neonicotinoid insecticides by modified cellulose-based complex particle.	Cellulose as an eco-friendly material is extensive in the nature. In this study, modified cellulose-based complex particle (MCCP) was produced through hydrothermal carbonization with methacrylic acid in the stirring and sand bath circumstance. The activated modified carbon-based porous particle (AMCCP) was prepared by treating with potassium hydroxide at high temperature, showing higher efficiency in removing neonicotinoids than MCCP. The AMCCP was fully characterized via scanning electron microscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy and Brunauer-Emmett-Teller analysis. The Brunauer-Emmett-Teller analysis showed the prepared AMCCP has smaller aggregated particles with higher surface area than MCCP. The adsorption kinetic and the adsorption isotherm of AMCCP were studied, revealing that the pseudo-second-order kinetic model and the Langmuir model correlated with the experimental data better. The maximum adsorption capacity of AMCCP is 142.36 mg/g for acetamiprid. The adsorption process is spontaneous, favorable, and endothermic in nature. After five regeneration time, the adsorption efficiency of the AMCCP is still over 95%.	1	pesticide
30604361	Toxicity and side effects of some insecticides applied in cotton fields on Apis mellifera.	Honeybee (Apis mellifera L.) provides not only bee products of immense value but also render invaluable free service as cross-pollination and propagation of several cultivated and wild species, thereby, maintaining biological diversity. Bee larvae and adults might be killed or suffer various sublethal effects when placed in contact with pollen and nectar contaminated with insecticides. The present work was conducted to investigate the toxicity of seven insecticides on laboratory using oral toxicity test and their side effects on A. mellifera in cotton fields. Results indicated that lambda-cyhalothrin was the most toxic-tested pesticide, recording the lowest LC50 and LC90 values at all tested periods and the lowest LT50 and LT90 at all tested concentrations, followed by abamectin, spinosad, chlorpyrifos, and emamectin benzoate. On the other side, dipel and pyridalyl recording the highest LC50 and LC90 at all tested periods and the highest LT50 and LT90 at all tested concentrations. As for the application of pesticides in cotton fields, the tested pesticides significantly increased the number of dead workers in comparison with control. The tested pesticides significantly decreased bee foraging activities, i.e., number of foraging workers, number of worker collecting nectar, number of worker gathering pollen grains, area of broad workers, and honey bee yields. Dipel and pyridalyl were the most safety pesticides on honey bee workers in laboratory and field, so it could be introduced as a component in IPM programs of cotton pests.	1	pesticide
30611075	Enantioselectivity in endocrine disrupting effects of four cypermethrin enantiomers based on in vitro models.	Cypermethrin (CP) is a kind of chiral pesticides that has been defined as endocrine disrupting chemical. The diversity in bioactivity, toxicity, metabolism, bioaccumulation, and degradation behaviors of CP enantiomers as well as the research deficiency had made the risk assessment of CP enantiomers very complicated. Herein, four CP enantiomers were separated as target chemicals to investigate their enantioselective endocrine disrupting effects. Firstly, dual-luciferase reporter gene assays were adopted to investigate their potential endocrine disrupting effects via various receptors. The expression levels of steroid hormones related genes and hormone secretion levels in H295R cell were measured to verify the results. Results from the reporter gene assay showed that 1R-cis-αS-CP (CP11) exhibited glucocorticoid receptor (GR), mineralocorticoid receptor (MR), and thyroid receptor (TR) antagonistic activity with the RIC20 values of 9.22 × 10-7, 3.33 × 10-7, and 4.47 × 10-7 M, respectively; 1R-trans-αS-CP (CP21) also showed androgen receptor (AR) agonist activity and estrogen receptor (ER) antagonistic activity with the REC20 and RIC20 values were 1.07 × 10-4 M and 4.78 × 10-6 M, respectively. Results of qRT-PCR and hormone measurement also showed that CP11 and CP21 could disturb the expression of steroid hormones related genes and hormone secretion accordingly. Results provided here can help to understand the enantioselective ecological and health risks of CP enantiomers comprehensively and provide constructive guidance for the safe use of chiral pesticides and the invention of green pesticides.	1	pesticide
30612564	The evidence of human exposure to glyphosate: a review.	BACKGROUND: Despite the growing and widespread use of glyphosate, a broad-spectrum herbicide and desiccant, very few studies have evaluated the extent and amount of human exposure. OBJECTIVE: We review documented levels of human exposure among workers in occupational settings and the general population. METHODS: We conducted a review of scientific publications on glyphosate levels in humans; 19 studies were identified, of which five investigated occupational exposure to glyphosate, 11 documented the exposure in general populations, and three reported on both. RESULTS: Eight studies reported urinary levels in 423 occupationally and para-occupationally exposed subjects; 14 studies reported glyphosate levels in various biofluids on 3298 subjects from the general population. Average urinary levels in occupationally exposed subjects varied from 0.26 to 73.5 μg/L; environmental exposure urinary levels ranged from 0.16 to 7.6 μg/L. Only two studies measured temporal trends in exposure, both of which show increasing proportions of individuals with detectable levels of glyphosate in their urine over time. CONCLUSIONS: The current review highlights the paucity of data on glyphosate levels among individuals exposed occupationally, para-occupationally, or environmentally to the herbicide. As such, it is challenging to fully understand the extent of exposure overall and in vulnerable populations such as children. We recommend further work to evaluate exposure across populations and geographic regions, apportion the exposure sources (e.g., occupational, household use, food residues), and understand temporal trends.	1	pesticide
30660036	Ultrasound-assisted emulsification liquid phase microextraction method based on deep eutectic solvent as extraction solvent for determination of five pesticides in traditional Chinese medicine.	A kind of green solvents termed deep eutectic solvent (DES) have been considered alternatives to traditional organic solvents. In this study, a method was developed for determination of five pesticide residues including triadimenol, fipronil, tebuconazole, hexaconazole and diniconazole in five different traditional Chinese medicines (TCMs). In the developed method, DES was selected as extraction solvent, ultrasound-assisted emulsification liquid phase microextraction (UA-ELPME) was used for extraction and high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) equipped with a diode array detector (DAD) was used for quantification. In this method, DES was synthesized with choline chloride and phenol at the molar ratio 1:4 using the heating and stirring method. Meanwhile, several important parameters such as volume of DES (650 μL), volume of tetrahydrofuran (THF, 550 μL) and ultrasonic time (30 min) were optimized by using response surface methodology (RSM) based on a central composite design (CCD). Under the optimized conditions, the limits of detection and quantification of method were in the range of 0.02-0.2 μg mL-1 and 0.05-0.5 μg mL-1, respectively. The correlation coefficients (r) of five calibration curves are greater than 0.9996, relative standard deviation (RSD) of precision for this method of five pesticides were lower than 4.7%, and the mean recoveries were in the range of 81.0-92.1%. The present experiment suggests that DESs are efficiently extract solvents in UA-ELPME method for traditional herbal medicines applications.	1	pesticide
30665641	Effect of an eco-friendly o/w emulsion stabilized with amphiphilic sodium alginate derivatives on lambda-cyhalothrin adsorption-desorption on natural soil minerals.	The effects of amphiphilic O/W emulsions, stabilized by the alkyl polyglycoside (APG) or cholesterol-grafted sodium alginate (CSAD)/APG systems, on lambda-cyhalothrin adsorption/desorption mechanisms on natural soil minerals (i.e., illite and kaolinite) were investigated. Sorption and desorption of lambda-cyhalothrin onto soil minerals was studied via batch equilibration to give insight into the adsorption equilibrium, kinetics, and thermodynamics of lambda-cyhalothrin adsorption onto minerals. The results indicate the following: (i) The adsorption processes for the APG system and CSAD/APG system include: rapid adsorption, slow adsorption, and adsorption equilibrium. The adsorption kinetics of pesticide on illite and kaolinite are in accordance with the Ho and McKay model, and the adsorption isotherm conforms to the Freundlich model. In addition, the adsorption processes of pesticide for the two systems on minerals were spontaneous and feasible (ΔG0 < 0), endothermic (ΔH0 > 0), and mainly involved chemical bonding (ΔH0 > 60). (ii) The equilibrium adsorption percentages of the pesticide on illite for the APG system and CSAD/APG system were 42.4% and 64.8%, and the corresponding equilibrium adsorption percentages on kaolinite were 40.8% and 61.8%, respectively. Moreover, the pesticide adsorption rate K2-CSAD/APG was faster than K2-APG, and its adsorption capacity Kf-CSAD/APG was greater than Kf-APG. Meanwhile, the pesticide desorption Kfd in the CSAD/APG system was smaller than that in the APG system. As a result, this eco-friendly O/W emulsion based on amphiphilic sodium alginate derivatives might provide a green pesticide formulation, since it could reduce the amount of lambda-cyhalothrin entering aquatic systems to threaten non-target fish and invertebrate species.	1	pesticide
30666814	Simultaneous photoreduction and Raman spectroscopy of red blood cells to investigate the effects of organophosphate exposure.	Simultaneous photoreduction and Raman spectroscopy with 532 nm laser has been used to study the effects of organophosphate (chlorpyrifos [CPF]) exposure on human red blood cells (RBCs). Since in RBCs, auto-oxidation causes oxidative stress, which, in turn, is balanced by the cellular detoxicants, any possible negative effect of CPF on this balance should results in an increased level of damaged (permanently oxygenated) hemoglobin. Therefore, when 532 nm laser, at a suitable power, was applied to photoreduce the cells, only common oxygenated form of hemoglobin got photoreduced leaving the permanently oxygenated hemoglobin detectable in the Raman spectra simultaneously excited by the same laser. Using the technique effects of CPF to build up oxidative stress on RBCs could be detected at concentrations as low as 10 ppb from a comparison of relative strengths of different Raman bands. Experiments performed using simultaneously exposing the cells, along with CPF, to H2 O2 (oxidative agent) and/or 3-Aminotriazole (inhibitor of anti-oxidant catalase), suggested role of CPF to suppress the cellular anti-oxidant mechanism. Since the high level of damaged hemoglobin produced by the action of CPF (at concentrations >100 ppm) is expected to cause membrane damage, atomic force microscopy (AFM) was used to identify such damages.Upper panel: Raman spectra of normal, photoreduced CPF exposed and unexposed RBCs. Lower panel: The weak Fe-O2 Raman band for CPF exposed cells shown on the left. The AFM images of unexposed and exposed cells are shown on the right. Scale bar, 2.5 μm.	1	pesticide
30673587	The leucokinin-like peptide receptor from the cattle fever tick, Rhipicephalus microplus, is localized in the midgut periphery and receptor silencing with validated double-stranded RNAs causes a reproductive fitness cost.	The cattle fever tick, Rhipicephalus microplus (Canestrini) (Acari: Ixodidae), is a one-host tick that infests primarily cattle in tropical and sub-tropical regions of the world. This species transmits deadly cattle pathogens, especially Babesia spp., for which a recombinant vaccine is not available. Therefore, disease control depends on tick vector control. Although R. microplus was eradicated in the USA, tick populations in Mexico and South America have acquired resistance to many of the applied acaricides. Recent acaricide-resistant tick reintroductions detected in the U.S. underscore the need for novel tick control methods. The octopamine and tyramine/octopamine receptors, both G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR), are believed to be the main molecular targets of the acaricide amitraz. This provides the proof of principle that investigating tick GPCRs, especially those that are invertebrate-specific, may be a feasible strategy for discovering novel targets and subsequently new anti-tick compounds. The R. microplus leucokinin-like peptide receptor (LKR), also known as the myokinin- or kinin receptor, is such a GPCR. While the receptor was previously characterized in vitro, the function of the leucokinin signaling system in ticks remains unknown. In this work, the LKR was immunolocalized to the periphery of the female midgut and silenced through RNA interference (RNAi) in females. To optimize RNAi experiments, a dual-luciferase system was developed to determine the silencing efficiency of LKR-double stranded RNA (dsRNA) constructs prior to testing those in ticks placed on cattle. This assay identified two effective dsRNAs. Silencing of the LKR with these two validated dsRNA constructs was verified by quantitative real time PCR (qRT-PCR) of female tick dissected tissues. Silencing was significant in midguts and carcasses. Silencing caused decreases in weights of egg masses and in the percentages of eggs hatched per egg mass, as well as delays in time to oviposition and egg hatching. A role of the kinin receptor in tick reproduction is apparent.	1	pesticide
30678586	Enhanced Overwintering Survival of Stevia by QoI Fungicides Used for Management of Sclerotium rolfsii.	Stevia (Stevia rebaudiana) is a herbaceous perennial under evaluation as a new crop in the southeastern United States. Stem rot caused by Sclerotium rolfsii is common in stevia plantings in North Carolina, with symptoms including wilting, root and stem necrosis, and plant death. Fungicide efficacy trials for management of S. rolfsii were conducted over 2 years. Fungicides evaluated included azoxystrobin, flutolanil, and tebuconazole applied at three timings. Azoxystrobin applied to transplants 1 week prior to planting had the lowest area under the disease progress curve values across all trials. Fungicide plots were also used to evaluate overwintering of stevia. End-of-season stand counts were compared with spring emergence counts to quantify overwintering survival. In spring 2015, plots treated with azoxystrobin in 2014 had greater overwintering survival (78%) than other fungicide treatments (38%) and the control (38%). Similar results were obtained at two locations in spring 2016 in plots treated with azoxystrobin or pyraclostrobin in 2015. Successful overwintering of stevia directly impacts the profitability of second- and third-year harvests and enhances the likelihood of long-term establishment of stevia as a viable crop. Future studies will be directed at elucidating the mechanism of the enhanced overwintering survival of plants treated with quinone outside inhibitor fungicides.	1	pesticide
30679494	Effects of Chemical Insecticide Imidacloprid on the Release of C6 Green Leaf Volatiles in Tea Plants (Camellia sinensis).	Chemical insecticides are widely used for pest control worldwide. However, the impact of insecticides on indirect plant defense is seldom reported. Here, using tea plants and the pesticide imidacloprid, effects of chemical insecticides on C6-green leaf volatiles (GLVs) anabolism and release were investigated first time. Compared with the non-treated control plants, the treatment of imidacloprid resulted in the lower release amount of key GLVs: (Z)-3-hexenal, n-hexenal, (Z)-3-hexene-1-ol and (Z)-3-Hexenyl acetate. The qPCR analysis revealed a slight higher transcript level of the CsLOX3 gene but a significantly lower transcript level of CsHPL gene. Our results suggest that imidacloprid treatment can have a negative effect on the emission of GLVs due to suppressing the critical GLVs synthesis-related gene, consequently affecting plant indirect defense.	1	pesticide
30682911	Characterization of Resistance to Six Chemical Classes of Site-Specific Fungicides Registered for Gray Mold Control on Strawberry in Spain.	Botrytis cinerea, causal agent of the gray mold disease, is one of the most economically important fungal pathogens of strawberry worldwide. In Spain, as in other parts of the world, management of gray mold control primarily involves the application of fungicides. To determine the fungicide resistance of the Spanish strawberry field population, 367 B. cinerea isolates were examined from one organic and 13 conventional strawberry fields in Huelva (Spain) in 2014 and 2015. The sensitivities of these isolates to six fungicides used for gray mold management in Spain were examined using a spore germination assay based on previously published discriminatory doses. The frequency of resistance to pyraclostrobin, boscalid, cyprodinil, fenhexamid, iprodione, and fludioxonil was 74.6, 64.8, 37.0, 23.7, 14.7, and 0.8%, respectively. The majority of isolates (35.1%) were resistant to three different fungicides classes. Within these isolates, the most prevalent resistance profile (55.8%) was resistance to pyraclostrobin, boscalid, and cyprodinil, followed by the resistance profile (30.2%) of resistance to pyraclostrobin, boscalid, and fenhexamid. One isolate collected in 2015 was resistant to all six fungicide classes. Resistance to boscalid, fenhexamid, iprodione, and pyraclostrobin was found to be caused by amino acid substitutions on target proteins, including H272R/Y in SdhB, F412I/S/V in Erg27, I365 N/S in Bos1, and G143A in Cytb, respectively. The presence of multifungicide resistance phenotypes in B. cinerea isolates from strawberry fields in Spain must be considered in the development of future resistance management practices.	1	pesticide
30682928	Genetic Diversity, Fungicide Sensitivity, and Host Resistance to Ceratocystis fimbriata Infecting Sweetpotato in North Carolina.	Black rot of sweetpotato, caused by Ceratocystis fimbriata, has recently reemerged as a significant threat to sweetpotato production in North Carolina and other states across the United States. This disease has historically been controlled largely through cultural management strategies and, in some cases, fungicide application. The sudden and destructive reemergence of this disease in 2015 created the need for rapidly evaluating disease control strategies. Genetic diversity of current C. fimbriata isolates infecting sweetpotato in North Carolina was assessed using ITS, TEF, and MAT-2 sequences. All 50 tested isolates were confirmed to be of a single mating type, MAT-2, based on PCR amplification. Alignment of ITS, TEF, and MAT-2 sequences revealed all isolates were identical at each locus. Fourteen common sweetpotato cultivars and advanced breeding lines were screened for black rot resistance using two isolates. None of the cultivars were completely resistant to the disease and most were equally susceptible. 'Stokes Purple' and 'Covington' were the least susceptible, but significantly (P < 0.05) differed only from 'Bellevue', the most susceptible cultivar. Sensitivity of 50 C. fimbriata isolates to difenoconazole, fludioxonil, thiabendazole, dicloran, azoxystrobin, pyraclostrobin, fenamidone, and fluazinam was evaluated in vitro. Difenoconazole, thiabendazole, and fluazinam were most effective in reducing mycelia growth. Postharvest fungicide application on black rot-infected roots provided similar results. Low efficacy of dicloran, as well as a range of EC50 values among isolates, suggests potential resistance to this commonly applied fungicide. Results obtained in this study provide current and useful information so that improved recommendations can be made to reduce losses in sweetpotato to black rot.	1	pesticide
30686186	Length of Efficacy for Control of Curly Top in Sugar Beet With Seed and Foliar Insecticides.	Curly top in sugar beet caused by Beet curly top virus (BCTV) is an important yield-limiting disease that can be reduced via neonicotinoid and pyrethroid insecticides. The length of efficacy of these insecticides is poorly understood; therefore, field experiments were conducted with the seed treatment Poncho Beta (clothianidin at 60 g a.i. + beta-cyfluthrin at 8 g a.i. per 100,000 seed) and foliar treatment Asana (esfenvalerate at 55.48 g a.i./ha). A series of four experiments at different locations in the same field were conducted in 2014 and repeated in a neighboring field in 2015, with four treatments (untreated check, Poncho Beta, Asana, and Poncho Beta + Asana) which were arranged in a randomized complete block design with eight replications. To evaluate efficacy, viruliferous (contain BCTV strains) beet leafhoppers were released 8, 9, 10, or 11weeks after planting for each experiment, which corresponded to 1, 2, 3, and 4 weeks after Asana application. Over both years, in 30 of 32 observation dates for treatments with Poncho Beta and 14 of 16 observation dates for Asana, visual curly top ratings decreased an average of 41 and 24%, respectively, with insecticide treatments compared with the untreated check. Over both years, in eight of eight experiments for treatments with Poncho Beta and six of eight experiments for Asana, root yields increased an average of 39 and 32%, respectively, with treatment compared with the untreated check. Over both years, the Poncho Beta treatments increased estimated recoverable sucrose (ERS) yield by 75% compared with the untreated check for weeks 8 and 9. By week 10, only the Poncho Beta + Asana treatment led to increases in ERS in both years, while the influence of increasing host resistance may have made other treatments more difficult to separate. When considering curly top symptoms, root yield, and ERS among all weeks and years, there was a tendency for the insecticides in the Poncho Beta + Asana treatment to complement each other to improve efficacy.	1	pesticide
30686207	Fungicide and Cultivar Effects on Sudden Death Syndrome and Yield of Soybean.	The effect of fungicides on severity of sudden death syndrome (SDS; caused by Fusarium virguliforme), plant establishment, and soybean yield was evaluated in 12 field experiments conducted in Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, and Ontario in 2013 and 2014. Two soybean cultivars that differed in susceptibility to SDS were planted in fields with a history of SDS or with artificial augmentation of F. virguliforme. Efficacy of seed, in-furrow, and foliar-applied fungicides was assessed. SDS levels varied across locations and years. Fluopyram applied on the seed or in-furrow reduced foliar disease index maximum up to 95% in 5 of the 12 experiments. In three experiments with significant (P < 0.10) treatment effect, fluopyram seed treatment improved yields up to 11% compared with the base seed treatment comprising prothioconazole + penflufen + metalaxyl and clothianidin + Bacillus firmus. Meta-analysis also indicated that the fluopyram seed treatment and in-furrow application were effective at reducing SDS and increasing yield relative to the control; however, the baseline disease influenced the yield and disease response to fungicide treatments. Treatment effect was not significant when disease pressure was low. The concentration of F. virguliforme DNA in soybean roots, measured by a specific real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction assay, was not different among fungicide treatments in 9 of 10 experiments. Moderately resistant cultivars had less disease than susceptible cultivars, indicating that resistant cultivars in combination with fluopyram seed treatment or in-furrow application could provide effective management of SDS.	1	pesticide
30690381	Emerging contaminants in sediment core from the Iron Gate I Reservoir on the Danube River.	The Iron Gate I Reservoir is the largest impoundment on the Danube River. It retains >50% of the incoming total suspended solids load and the associated organic contaminants. In the sediment core of the Iron Gate I Reservoir we report the presence and fate of four classes of emerging contaminants (pharmaceuticals, pesticides, steroids and perfluorinated compounds), predominantly not covered by the EU monitoring programs, but considered as future candidates. Based on contaminant's partitioning behavior in the water/sediment system and the suspected ecotoxicological potential asserted from the literature data, the risk of recorded concentrations for sediment-dwelling organisms was discussed. The high anticipated risk was associated with antibiotics sulfamethoxazole and erythromycin, and pesticides linuron and carbendazim (banned in the EU, but still approved for use in the investigated area) and malathion. This indicated the need for better control of release of these compounds into the river, and implied their inclusion in future regular monitoring. Higher concentrations of pharmaceuticals and most pesticides and sterols were recorded in the fragment of allochthonous coarser sediment, assumed to have entered the reservoir during a high discharge event. Only one perfluorinated compound was recorded in the upper part of the sediment core. The vertical concentration profiles of pesticides propazine and malathion indicated their uniform source, most likely atmospheric transport and deposition of particles deriving from agricultural land.	1	pesticide
30698848	Agrochemical Mixtures and Amphibians: The Combined Effects of Pesticides and Fertilizer on Stress, Acetylcholinesterase Activity, and Bioaccumulation in a Terrestrial Environment.	Tank mixtures are popular within the agricultural community because they are time- and cost-effective, but field applications leave nontarget organisms at risk of exposure. We explored the effects of a common herbicide (atrazine and alachlor) and fertilizer (urea) tank mixture on juvenile frog corticosterone stress levels, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, and pesticide bioaccumulation. Single agrochemical or tank mixtures were applied to terrestrial microcosms, and then individual Southern leopard frog (Lithobates sphenocephala) juveniles were added to microcosms for an 8-h exposure. Afterward, frogs were transferred to aquatic microcosms for 1 h to monitor corticosterone prior to euthanasia, brain tissues were excised to evaluate AChE, and tissue homogenates were analyzed for pesticide bioconcentation with gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Atrazine significantly increased corticosterone in frogs, particularly when combined with alachlor and urea. Atrazine increased AChE and urea decreased AChE, although no interactive effects of chemical combinations were discernible. Relative to their individual treatments, the complete tank mixture with all 3 agrochemicals resulted in 64% greater bioconcentration of atrazine and 54% greater bioconcentration of alachlor in frog tissues. Our results suggest that agrochemical mixtures as well as their active ingredients can lead to altered stress levels and impaired physiological responses in amphibians. An improved understanding of the effects of co-exposure to environmental contaminants in amphibians is important in assessing the ecological risks these compounds pose. Environ Toxicol Chem 2019;9999:1-10. © 2019 SETAC.	1	pesticide
30707840	Exploiting π-π Interactions to Design an Efficient Sorbent for Atrazine Removal from Water.	The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) recognizes atrazine, a commonly used herbicide, as an endocrine disrupting compound. Excessive use of this agrochemical results in contamination of surface and ground water supplies via agricultural runoff. Efficient removal of atrazine from contaminated water supplies is paramount. Here, the mechanism governing atrazine adsorption in Zr6-based metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) has been thoroughly investigated by studying the effects of MOF linkers and topology on atrazine uptake capacity and uptake kinetics. We found that the mesopores of NU-1000 facilitated rapid atrazine uptake saturating in <5 min and that the pyrene-based linkers offered sufficient sites for π-π interactions with atrazine as demonstrated by the near 100% uptake. Without the presence of a pyrene-based linker, NU-1008, a MOF similar to NU-1000 with respect to surface area and pore size, removed <20% of the exposed atrazine. These results suggest that the atrazine uptake capacity demonstrated by NU-1000 stems from the presence of a pyrene core in the MOF linker, affirming that π-π stacking is responsible for driving atrazine adsorption. Furthermore, NU-1000 displays an exceptional atrazine removal capacity through three cycles of adsorption-desorption. Powder X-ray diffraction and Brunauer-Emmett-Teller surface area analysis confirmed the retention of MOF crystallinity and porosity throughout the adsorption-desorption cycles.	1	pesticide
30708725	Resistance to Fluopyram, Fluxapyroxad, and Penthiopyrad in Botrytis cinerea from Strawberry.	Succinate dehydrogenase inhibitors (SDHIs) constitute a mainstay in management of gray mold caused by Botrytis cinerea in strawberry and several other crops. In this study, we investigated the risks of resistance development to three newer SDHIs (i.e., fluopyram, fluxapyroxad, and penthiopyrad) and their cross-resistance with the previously registered boscalid. We investigated the mutations in the SdhB subunit and evaluated their impact on microbial fitness in field populations of B. cinerea. Amino acid substitutions associated with resistance to SDHIs were detected at three codons of the SdhB subunit (BH272R/Y/L, BP225F, and BN230I) in the succinate dehydrogenase gene of field isolates from Florida. The BH272R, BH272Y, BH272L, BP225F, and BN230I mutations were detected at frequencies of 51.5, 28.0, 0.5, 2.5, and 4%, respectively. Strong cross-resistance patterns were evident between boscalid and fluxapyroxad and penthiopyrad but not with fluopyram, except in BH272L, BP225F, and BN230I mutants. All five mutations conferred moderate to very high resistance to boscalid whereas the BH272Y conferred resistance to fluxapyroxad and penthiopyrad. The BH272L, BN230I, and BP225F mutations conferred high resistance to all four SDHIs tested. Resistance monitoring following the first use of penthiopyrad in strawberry fields in Florida in 2013 suggests potential for quick selection for highly resistant populations and warrants careful use of the newer SDHIs. No evidence of major fitness costs due to the mutations in the SdhB subunit was found, which indicates the potential ability of the mutants to survive and compete with wild-type isolates. Our study suggests high risks for rapid widespread occurrence of B. cinerea populations resistant to the novel SDHIs unless appropriate rotation strategies are implemented immediately upon registration.	1	pesticide
30708752	First Report of QoI-Resistant Downy Mildew (Plasmopara viticola) of Grape (Vitis vinifera cv. Vidal Blanc) in Kentucky.	Fungicides in the quinone outside inhibitor class (QoI, also referred to as strobilurins, FRAC group 11) are relied upon for management of a wide range of diseases, including anthracnose, black rot, downy mildew, and powdery mildew on grape. In June 2012, a grape grower from Anderson County in central Kentucky reported a planting of grapevines (Vitis vinifera cv. Vidal Blanc) with 90% downy mildew (Plasmopara viticola) incidence that would not respond to applications of the QoI fungicide Abound 2.08F (22.9% azoxystrobin, Syngenta Crop) or the QoI-containing fungicide Pristine (12.8% pyraclostrobin + 25.2% boscalid, BASF Corporation). Symptoms included yellow irregular lesions or brownish red angular lesions with necrosis on upper sides of leaves. Undersides of leaves contained dense white sporulation. The grower confirmed usage of 4 to 5 applications each of Abound and Pristine fungicides between 2011 and 2012, which exceeded the maximum number of applications allowed per season, as expressed on individual labels. Samples were collected from throughout the 0.4-ha vineyard, and the pathogen was identified as Plasmopara viticola based on morphology of sporangia and sporangiophores (2). Fungicide sensitivity was determined using methods published by Wong and Wilcox (3). Leaves were selected from the 3rd to 6th leaf position from disease-free plants. Nine-millimeter leaf discs were surface disinfested and treated with fungicide concentrations ranging from one-half of the lowest labeled rate to twice the highest label rate (850, 170, 270, and 540 mg/l azoxystrobin and 40, 80, 120, and 240 mg/l pyraclostrobin). Leaf discs were inoculated by placing 10-μl droplets of sporangial suspensions (1 × 104 sporangia per ml) and then incubated at room temperature (22 to 24°C) under fluorescent lights with a 12-h photoperiod (1,3). Dense white fungal growth developed within 10 days; discs treated with water did not develop signs of disease. Fungicide sensitivity was evaluated by determination of the effective concentration (EC50) (3). Leaf discs were examined under a dissecting microscope after 14 days to determine presence of fungal growth; those with visible sporangia and/or sporangiophores were considered diseased. Resulting EC50 concentrations were 420 and 390 mg a.i./l for Abound (azoxystrobin) and Pristine (pyraclostrobin), respectively. This was higher than EC50 ranges of resistant isolates reported by Baudoin et al. (100 and 25 mg/l for azoxystrobin and pyraclostrobin, respectively) (1). Additionally, ranges were higher than EC50 values of isolates not exposed to QoI fungicides reported by Baudoin et al. (1) and higher (14× and 39×, respectively) than those previously determined from P. viticola from Kentucky that were not exposed to QoI fungicides (Ward, unpublished). These EC50 ranges were also much higher than recommended label application rates, which ranged from 170 to 270 mg a.i./l for Abound and from 80 to 120 mg a.i./l for Pristine. Results indicated that P. viticola from this vineyard became insensitive to the fungicides Abound and Pristine. This will lead to future fungicide failures and increased incidences of downy mildew in vineyards. Although QoI-resistant P. viticola has been reported in Europe and elsewhere in the United States, this is the first documented report of QoI-resistant P. viticola in Kentucky. A complete survey is necessary to determine whether this phenomenon is widespread within the state. References: (1) A. Baudoin et al. Plant Health Progress doi:10.1094/PHP-2008-0211-02-RS, 2008. (2) R. C. Pearson and A. C. Goheen, eds. Compendium of Grape Diseases, 4th ed. The American Phytopathological Society, St. Paul, MN, 1998. (3) F. P. Wong and W. F. Wilcox. Plant Dis. 84: 275, 2000.	1	pesticide
30709361	Effectiveness of a 10% imidacloprid/4.5% flumethrin polymer matrix collar in reducing the risk of Bartonella spp. infection in privately owned cats.	BACKGROUND: Bartonella henselae, Bartonella clarridgeiae and the rare Bartonella koehlerae are zoonotic pathogens, with cats being regarded as the main reservoir hosts. The spread of the infection among cats occurs mainly via fleas and specific preventive measures need to be implemented. The effectiveness of a 10% imidacloprid/4.5% flumethrin polymer matrix collar (Seresto®, Bayer Animal Health), registered to prevent flea and tick infestations, in reducing the risk of Bartonella spp. infection in privately owned cats, was assessed in a prospective longitudinal study. METHODS: In March-May 2015 [Day 0 (D0)], 204 privately-owned cats from the Aeolian Islands (Sicily) were collared (G1, n = 104) or left as controls (G2, n = 100). The bacteraemia of Bartonella spp. was assessed at enrolment (D0) and study closure (D360) by PCR and DNA sequencing both prior to and after an enrichment step, using Bartonella alpha proteobacteria growth medium (BAPGM). RESULTS: A total of 152 cats completed the study with 3 in G1 and 10 in G2 being positive for Bartonella spp. Bartonella henselae genotype I ZF1 (1.35%) and genotype II Fizz/Cal-1 (6.76%) as well as B. clarridgeiae (5.41%) were detected in cats of G2. Bartonella clarridgeiae was the only species detected in G1. Based on the yearly crude incidence of Bartonella spp. infection (i.e. 3.85% in G1 and 13.51% in G2; P = 0.03) the Seresto® collar achieved a preventative efficacy of 71.54%. The incidence of Bartonella spp. infection was more frequent in flea-infested cats (6/33, 18.18%) than in uninfested ones (7/112, 5.88%) (P = 0.036). CONCLUSIONS: Cats living in the Aeolian Islands are exposed to B. henselae and B. clarridgeiae. The Seresto® collar provided significant risk reduction against Bartonella spp. infection in outdoor cats under field conditions. Such a preventative tool could be a key contribution for decreasing the risk of Bartonella spp. infection in cats and thus ultimately to humans.	1	pesticide
30713281	Inhibitory effect of grapefruit seed extract (GSE) on avian pathogens.	The inhibitory activities of grapefruit seed extract (GSE) on avian influenza virus (AIV), Newcastle disease virus (NDV), infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV), Salmonella Infantis (SI) and Escherichia coli (EC) were evaluated. Original GSE contained 0.24% benzalkonium chloride (BZC), however, 0.0025% BZC solution could not inactivate bacteria. The activity of diluted GSE (×100, ×500 and ×1,000 with redistilled water) against selected viruses and bacteria was evaluated in this study. The GSE solutions were incubated with the pathogens over a period of time after which the remaining viruses were titrated and the bacterial colonies were counted. In the presence of organic material-5% fetal bovine serum (FBS), the test solutions were sprayed at 1 cm and 30 cm distances to test the efficacy of GSE in a spray form. Furthermore, the efficacy of GSE against bacteria on clothes was tested using non-woven cloth. GSE×100 reduced the viral titer of both AIV and NDV even in 5% FBS condition. IBDV showed high resistance to GSE. GSE×1,000 inactivated both SI and EC within 5 sec, even in the presence of 5% FBS. The disinfectant was able to maintain its efficacy in the spray form at 30 cm distance. GSE was also effective against SI and EC inoculated on fabric. GSE is a potential novel disinfectant against viruses and bacteria, effective even within a short contact time.	1	pesticide
30721827	Pre-diagnostic serum concentrations of organochlorines and risk of acute myeloid leukemia: A nested case-control study in the Norwegian Janus Serum Bank Cohort.	BACKGROUND: Epidemiologic studies suggest an increased risk of leukemia among individuals occupationally exposed to some organochlorine (OC) compounds. Associations between serum OC pesticide and polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) levels and risk of acute myeloid leukemia (AML), the most common subtype of acute leukemia in adult populations, have not been evaluated prospectively in the general population. OBJECTIVE: We evaluated the risk of AML in relation to pre-diagnostic serum levels of OC pesticides and PCBs in a case-control study nested within the Janus Serum Bank Cohort. METHODS: Janus is a large population-based cohort containing biologic samples collected beginning in the early 1970s from ~318,000 individuals in Norway. Serum levels of 11 OC pesticides or their metabolites and 34 PCB congeners were measured in 56 AML cases and 288 controls. Conditional logistic regression was conducted to evaluate associations between lipid-adjusted serum OC levels and risk of AML. RESULTS: Higher serum levels of total chlordane/heptachlor metabolites were associated with AML risk (3rd vs. 1st tertile odds ratio (OR) = 2.26, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.91-5.63; ptrend = 0.11). Significant exposure-response associations were observed for levels of heptachlor epoxide (3rd vs. 1st tertile OR = 2.85, 95% CI = 1.05-7.73; ptrend = 0.02) and dieldrin (3rd vs. 1st tertile OR = 2.71, 95% CI = 1.07-6.83; ptrend = 0.03). No significant exposure-response associations with AML risk were observed for total DDT or individual isomers and derivatives. Higher serum levels of p,p'-DDT showed a non-significant increase in risk, but the exposure-response became attenuated when co-adjusting for heptachlor epoxide or dieldrin levels. Serum PCB levels were not significantly associated with AML risk. CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that higher serum levels of dieldrin and metabolites derived from chlordane/heptachlor are associated with risk of AML in the general Norwegian population, based on samples collected on average ~17 years before diagnosis. Further research in populations with historically high or recent exposure to DDT is warranted to assess the association with AML risk with body burden of specific DDT isomers and derivatives.	1	pesticide
30729706	Phenotypic and genotypic pyrethroid resistance of Aedes albopictus, with focus on the 2017 chikungunya outbreak in Italy.	BACKGROUND: The highly invasive mosquito species Aedes albopictus has become a major health concern in temperate areas due to its role as vector of exotic arboviruses. Pyrethroid insecticides represent the main tools for limiting the circulation of such mosquito-borne viruses. The present work aim to extend previous reports on phenotypic pyrethroid-resistance in European Ae. albopictus, to identify its genetic basis and to monitor the geographical distribution of resistant genotypes, with a particular focus on sites experiencing the 2017 chikungunya outbreak in Italy. RESULTS: Bioassays, performed according to World Health Organization protocols, showed full susceptibility to deltamethrin (concentration = 0.05%) and varying levels of resistance to permethrin (0.75%) and/or α-cypermethrin (0.05%) across Italy, with highest levels in the core of the 2017 chikungunya outbreak. Partial genotyping of the VSSC gene revealed widespread distribution of V1016G mutation and confirmed its association with pyrethroid resistance. CONCLUSION: The results obtained show that the condition for the spread of pyrethroid resistance in Ae. albopictus in Europe exists under strong selective pressure due to intensive insecticide spraying to control exotic arbovirus outbreak or high levels of nuisance. The results draw attention to the need for an evidence-based implementation of mosquito nuisance control, taking insecticide resistance management into consideration. © 2019 Society of Chemical Industry.	1	pesticide
30743361	Performance of Two Bioherbicide Fungi for Waterhemp and Pigweed Control in Pumpkin and Soybean.	Common waterhemp (Amaranthus rudis) and pigweeds (Amaranthus spp.) are troublesome weeds in many cropping systems and have evolved resistance to several herbicides. Field trials to further develop Microsphaeropsis amaranthi and Phomopsis amaranthicola as bioherbicides for control of waterhemp and pigweeds were conducted to test the effectiveness of these organisms in irrigated and nonirrigated pumpkin and soybean plots over 2 years at three locations in western Illinois. The bioherbicide was applied with lecithin and vegetable oil at 187 liters ha-1 in 2008 and 374 liters ha-1 in 2009. Treatments included spore suspensions of M. amaranthi and P. amaranthicola alone, a mixture of both organisms, and sequential treatments of the organisms with halosulfuron-methyl (Sandea Herbicide) in pumpkin or glyphosate (Roundup Original Max Herbicide) in soybean. Bioherbicide effectiveness was estimated at approximately 7 and 14 days after treatment, as disease incidence, disease severity, percent weed control, and weed biomass reduction. Significant reductions in weed biomass occurred in treatments with one or both of the fungal organisms, and potential exists to tank mix M. amaranthi with halosulfuron-methyl. Leaf surface moisture and air temperatures following application may account for inconsistencies in field results between year and locations. These fungal organisms show potential as bioherbicides for weeds in the genus Amaranthus.	1	pesticide
30743538	Optimum Timing of Preplant Applications of Glyphosate to Manage Rhizoctonia Root Rot in Barley.	Rhizoctonia root rot, caused by Rhizoctonia solani AG-8 and R. oryzae, is considered one of the main deterrents for farmers to adopt reduced-tillage systems in the Pacific Northwest. Because of the wide host range of Rhizoctonia spp., herbicide application before planting to control weeds and volunteer plants is the main management strategy for this disease. To determine the effect of timing of glyphosate applications on the severity of Rhizoctonia root rot of barley, field experiments were conducted in 2007, 2008, and 2009 in a field naturally infested with a high level of both R. solani and R. oryzae. Crop volunteer plants and weeds were allowed to grow over the winter and plots were sprayed with glyphosate at 42, 28, 14, 7, and 2 days prior to planting. As the herbicide application interval increased, there were significant increases in shoot length, length of the first true leaf, and number of healthy seminal roots and a decrease in disease severity. Yield and the number of seminal roots did not show a response to herbicide application interval in most years. The activity of R. solani, as measured by toothpick bioassay and real-time polymerase chain reaction, declined over time in all treatments after planting barley. The herbicide application interval required to meet 80 and 90% of the maximum response (asymptote) for all plant and disease measurements ranged from 11 to 27 days and 13 to 37 days, respectively. These times are the minimum herbicide application intervals required to reduce disease severity in the following crop.	1	pesticide
30744896	LC50 of lambda-cyhalothrin stimulates reproduction on the moth Mythimna separata (Walker).	Lambda-cyhalothrin has long been recommended as an effective insecticide to control the oriental armyworm, Mythimna separata (Walker), a notorious migratory pest of agricultural plants. Previous researches have suggested that survival, development, and reproduction of insects are influenced by sublethal concentrations of insecticides. However, the effects of sublethal concentrations of lambda-cyhalothrin on M. separata are less known. In this study, we determined the toxicity and effects of LC20 and LC50 concentration of lambda-cyhalothrin on development and reproduction of M. separata. Results indicate that LC20 of lambda-cyhalothrin tends to decrease the life traits of M. separate, with a shortening larvae period of offspring and oviposition period, whereas LC50 of lambda-cyhalothrin stimulates daily maximal fecundity and forwards the oviposition peak, suggesting a stimulation of reproduction by LC50 of lambda-cyhalothrin. The M. separata population was increased by an LC50 concentration of lambda-cyhalothrin, resulting in a net reproductive rate (R0) and intrinsic rate of increase (rm) significantly higher than that of the control. Transcripts of vitellogenin (MsVg) and vitellogenin receptor (MsVgR) genes were suppressed at day 1 after emergence of moth which developed from the larvae exposed to LC20 and LC50 of lambda-cyhalothrin, but were significant induced when the moth begin to lay eggs (day 4), with a more remarkable induction by LC50 of lambda-cyhalothrin than those of LC20 of lambda-cyhalothrin. Our results indicate that the observed stimulation of reproduction is therefore the results of up-regulation of MsVg and MsVgR by LC50 of lambda-cyhalothrin.	1	pesticide
30744902	Benzimidazole- and QoI-resistance in Corynespora cassiicola populations from greenhouse-cultivated cucumber: An emerging problem in China.	Target leaf spot caused by Corynespora cassiicola is an economically important foliar disease on cucumber. In recent years, this disease has caused a serious problem on greenhouse-cultivated cucumber in China. In this study, to explore the characteristics and possible causes of heavy occurrence of the disease, we monitored the resistance of C. cassiicola strains from different provinces of China to benzimidazole and quinone outside inhibitor (QoI) fungicides. The results from sequence comparison of target genes β-tubulin and Cytb of 619C. cassiicola strains indicate that resistance frequency to benzimidazoles and QoIs is up to 100%. Furtherly, molecular resistance mechanism of C. cassiicola to benzimidazoles and QoIs was analysed. One single mutation E198A and three double mutations E198A&M163I, E198A&F167Y and E198A&F200S were observed in target gene β-tubulin, which confers resistance to benzimidazoles. To our knowledge, this is the first report that double mutations of β-tubulin confer resistance to benzimidazoles in filamentous fungi. Compared with single mutation E198A, three double mutations significantly decreased sensitivity to benzimidazoles. Moreover, significant difference of sensitivity to benzimidazoles was observed among three double mutations. These mutation genotypes of β-tubulin have different geographical distribution and the mutation E198A&M163I is prevalent, occupying for 63.94%. In addition, strong cross resistance patterns between carbendazim, benomyl and thiabendazole were observed in C. cassiicola strains conferring different β-tubulin mutations. For QoI resistance, the only mutation G143A of Cytb was detected in tested 619C. cassiicola strains. Strong positive cross resistance was observed when comparing the EC50 values of sensitive and resistant strains of C. cassiicola for six intrinsically different QoIs such as azoxystrobin, fluoxastrobin, pyraclostrobin, fenaminstrobin, picoxystrobin and coumoxystrobin. Taken together, all the results not only provide novel insights into understanding resistance mechanism to benzimidazoles and QoIs in filamentous fungi, but also provide some important references for resistance management of target leaf spot on cucumber.	1	pesticide
30753426	Tracking Pesticide Residues to a Plant Genus Using Palynology in Pollen Trapped from Honey Bees (Hymenoptera: Apidae) at Ornamental Plant Nurseries.	Worldwide studies have used the technique of pollen trapping, collecting pollen loads from returning honey bee (Apis mellifera L.) (Hymenoptera: Apidae) foragers, to evaluate the exposure of honey bees to pesticides through pollen and as a biomonitoring tool. Typically, these surveys have found frequent contamination of pollen with multiple pesticides, with most of the estimated risk of acute oral toxicity to honey bees coming from insecticides. In our survey of pesticides in trapped pollen from three commercial ornamental plant nurseries in Connecticut, we found most samples within the range of acute toxicity in a previous state pollen survey, but a few samples at one nursery with unusually high acute oral toxicity. Using visual sorting by color of the pollen pellets collected in two samples from this nursery, followed by pesticide analysis of the sorted pollen and palynology to identify the plant sources of the pollen with the greatest acute toxicity of pesticide residues, we were able to associate pollen from the plant genus Spiraea L. (Rosales: Rosaceae) with extraordinarily high concentrations of thiamethoxam and clothianidin, and also with high concentrations of acephate and its metabolite methamidophos. This study is the first to trace highly toxic pollen collected by honey bees to a single plant genus. This method of tracking high toxicity pollen samples back to potential source plants could identify additional high-risk combinations of pesticide application methods and timing, movement into pollen, and attractiveness to bees that would be difficult to identify through modeling each of the contributing factors.	1	pesticide
30754289	First Report of Crown and Root Rot Caused by Binucleate Rhizoctonia AG-A on Thryptomene saxicola in Italy.	Thryptomene saxicola (Hook.) Schauer is an evergreen shrub native to Western Australia and a member of the Myrtaceae. In Italy, this species was recently introduced as an ornamental plant from abroad. From July of 2008 to September 2009, a new crown and root rot of T. saxicola was observed on several stocks of approximately 20,000 1- to 3-year-old potted plants. Diseased plants were obtained from a commercial nursery in eastern Sicily, Italy. They were propagated from cuttings and grown under drip irrigation. More than 30% of the plants showed disease symptoms. Infected plants were characterized by a lack of vigor. Roots and crowns were partially or completely destroyed, and as a consequence, infected plants were chlorotic and often wilted. Early in the disease development, roots and crowns showed brown lesions. Successively, mature crown lesions turned dark brown. Longitudinal sections of crown tissues revealed a discoloration of the basal stem. Diseased tissues were surface disinfested for 1 min in 1% NaOCl, rinsed in sterile water, plated on potato dextrose agar (PDA) amended with 100 mg/liter of streptomycin sulfate, and then incubated at 25°C. A binucleate Rhizoctonia (BNR) species was consistently isolated from affected tissues of plants. Phytophthora isolates were not recovered from symptomatic tissues plated on BNPRAH (benomyl, nystatin, pentachloronitrobenzene, rifampicin, ampicillin, and hymexazol) selective medium. Fungal colonies were white with floccose, aerial hyphae. Hyphal cells were determined to be binucleate when stained with 1% safranin O and 3% KOH solution (1) and examined at ×400. Anastomosis groups were determined by pairing isolates with five different tester isolates of BNR AG-A on 2% water agar in petri plates (3). Anastomosis was observed with all tester isolates. The rDNA-ITS of one isolate of BNR (DISTEF-TS1) was sequenced (GenBank Accession No. AB514570) (2). The sequence from this isolate exhibited 99% homology with BNR AG-A (GenBank Accession No. AY738628). Pathogenicity tests were conducted on potted, healthy, 1-year-old plants of T. saxicola. Forty plants were inoculated by placing 1/cm2 plugs of PDA from 5-day-old mycelial cultures near the base of the stem. The same number of plants was treated with 1/cm2 PDA plugs as controls. Plants were kept at 25°C and 95% relative humidity on a 12-h fluorescent light/dark regimen. Root and crown rots, identical to those observed in the nursery, appeared 45 days after inoculation, and 80% of the inoculated plants died within 4 months. Control plants remained healthy. Binucleate Rhizoctonia was reisolated from symptomatic tissues, completing Koch's postulates. To our knowledge, this is the first report in the world of BNR causing disease on T. saxicola. References: (1) R. J. Bandoni. Mycologia 71:873, 1979. (2) M. Hyakumachi et al. Phytopathology 95:784, 2005. (3) C. C. Tu and J. W. Kimbrough. Mycologia 65:941, 1973.	1	pesticide
30756096	High malaria transmission sustained by Anopheles gambiae s.l. occurring both indoors and outdoors in the city of Yaoundé, Cameroon.	Background: Malaria remains a major public health problem in Cameroon; however, despite reports on the adaptation of anopheline species to urban habitats, there is still not enough information on malaria transmission pattern in urban settings. In the frame of a larval control trial in the city of Yaoundé, we conducted baseline surveys to assess malaria transmission dynamics in this city. Methods: Adult mosquitoes were collected indoors and outdoors using CDC light traps and human landing catches from March 2017 to March 2018 in 30 districts of Yaoundé, Cameroon. Mosquitoes were sorted by genus and identified to the species level using PCR. The TaqMan method and ELISA were used to determine mosquito infection status to Plasmodium. Bioassays were conducted to assess female Anopheles gambiae susceptibility to insecticides. Results: A total of 218,991 mosquitoes were collected. The main malaria vectors were An. gambiae s.l. (n=6154) and An. funestus s.l. (n=229). Of the 1476 An. gambiae s.l. processed by PCR, 92.19% were An. coluzzii and 7.81% An. gambiae. An. funestus s.l. was composed of 93.01% (173/186) An. funestus and 4.84% (13/186) An. leesoni. The average biting rate of anopheline was significantly high outdoor than indoor (P=0.013). Seasonal variation in mosquito abundance and biting rate was recorded. The infection rate by Plasmodium falciparum was 2.13% (104/4893 mosquitoes processed). The annual entomological inoculation rate was found to vary from 0 to 92 infective bites/man/year (ib/m/y). Malaria transmission risk was high outdoor (66.65 ib/m/y) compared to indoor (31.14 ib/m/y). An. gambiae s.l. was found highly resistant to DDT, permethrin and deltamethrin. High prevalence of the West Africa kdr allele 1014F was recorded and this was not found to influence An. gambiae s.l. infection status.   Conclusion: The study suggests high malaria transmission occurring in the city of Yaoundé and call for immediate actions to improve control strategies.	1	pesticide
30764445	Identification of Phytophthora cryptogea as the Cause of Rapid Decline of Petunia (Petunia × hybrida) in Chile.	Phytophthora cryptogea was consistently isolated from diseased tissue taken from the crown and necrotic roots of grandiflora type petunia (Petunia × hybrida) that were collected in gardens in five public parks in Santiago, Chile in 2004 and 2005. Symptoms included leaf wilting and foliar chlorosis, followed by partial necrosis, and extensive dark-brown to reddish cankers in the crown. Disease incidence was over 50% and infected plants died within 7 to 10 days after transplanting. This pathogen was identified on the basis of colony morphology, morphological characterization of the sexual and asexual reproductive structures, and temperature range. The identification of Phytophthora cryptogea was further corroborated by the internal transcribed spacer sequence analysis (GenBank accession number EF093534). Isolates of P. cryptogea were pathogenic on 10-week-old white grandiflora petunia plants that were inoculated on the roots or on the crown using mycelium fragments, or via soil inoculation using zoospores. A rapid decline was observed after soil inoculations with zoospores. Root fresh weight decreased significantly and the root rot index and severity of foliage symptoms increased significantly (P ≤ 0.05), relative to noninoculated plants after 14 days of incubation. Two isolates (Ph-1 and Ph-2) were pathogenic on bell pepper and one isolate (Ph-1) was pathogenic on tomato after root inoculation. Two isolates (Ph-2 and Ph-3) were pathogenic on the fruit of avocado, bell pepper, cherry tomato, cucumber, kiwifruit, lemon, pear, pepino, and potato tubers, demonstrating the pathogen's ability to cause postharvest infection of fruit of a wide range of host plants. The efficacy of mefenoxam at 0.1 mg/ml mixed with either chlorothalonil at 1.0 mg/ml or mancozeb at 1.6 mg/ml was demonstrated in this study, whereas chlorothalonil and mancozeb alone did not control disease development. No significant differences were obtained between foliage and soil drench applications. This study demonstrated that P. cryptogea is the cause of the rapid decline found on petunia in Santiago, Chile and, to our knowledge, this is the first report giving a detailed description of a disease caused by P. cryptogea on petunia.	1	pesticide
30765100	Organic diet intervention significantly reduces urinary pesticide levels in U.S. children and adults.	BACKGROUND: Previous diet intervention studies indicate that an organic diet can reduce urinary pesticide metabolite excretion; however, they have largely focused on organophosphate (OP) pesticides. Knowledge gaps exist regarding the impact of an organic diet on exposure to other pesticides, including pyrethroids and neonicotinoids, which are increasing in use in the United States and globally. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the impact of an organic diet intervention on levels of insecticides, herbicides, and fungicides or their metabolites in urine collected from adults and children. METHODS: We collected urine samples from four racially and geographically diverse families in the United States before and after an organic diet intervention (n = 16 participants and a total of 158 urine samples). RESULTS: We observed significant reductions in urinary levels of thirteen pesticide metabolites and parent compounds representing OP, neonicotinoid, and pyrethroid insecticides and the herbicide 2,4-D following the introduction of an organic diet. The greatest reductions were observed for clothianidin (- 82.7%; 95% confidence interval [95% CI]: - 86.6%, - 77.6%; p < 0.01), malathion dicarboxylic acid (MDA), a metabolite of malathion (- 95.0%; 95% CI: - 97.0%, - 91.8%; p < 0.01), and 3,5,6-trichlor-2-pyridinol (TCPy), a metabolite of chlorpyrifos (- 60.7%; 95% CI: - 69.6%, - 49.2%; p < 0.01). Metabolites or parent compounds of the fungicides boscalid, iprodione, and thiabendazole and the neonicotinoid insecticide imidacloprid were not detected among participants in our study. CONCLUSION: An organic diet was associated with significant reductions in urinary excretion of several pesticide metabolites and parent compounds. This study adds to a growing body of literature indicating that an organic diet may reduce exposure to a range of pesticides in children and adults. Additional research is needed to evaluate dietary exposure to neonicotinoids, which are now the most widely used class of insecticides in the world.	1	pesticide
30779201	Insecticide susceptibility status and major detoxifying enzymes activity in Anopheles subpictus from Kasur, Pakistan.	Anopheles subpictus s.l. Grassi (Diptera: Culicidae) is a malaria vector in South Asia, where insecticides are the mainstay for vector control interventions. Information on any variation in metabolic enzyme levels in mosquitoes is helpful with respect to adapting alternative strategies for vector control. The scarce data on the biochemical basis of insecticide resistance in malaria vectors of Pakistan limit the available information for vector control interventions within the country. The insecticide susceptibility status and its biochemical basis against dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) (4%), deltamethrin (0.05%) and permethrin (0.75%) in An. subpictus s.l. collected from all Tehsils of district Kasur were evaluated. For this purpose, a World Health Organization susceptibility bioassay was performed followed by the detection of altered metabolic enzyme activity using biochemical assays. Similarly, a significant difference in knock-down effect was observed among field collected and susceptible strain against all insecticides 24 h post exposure. The overall mean mortality rates of DDT, deltamethrin and permethrin were 27.86% [95% confidence interval (CI) = 29.65-26.06], 44.89% (95% CI = 46.23-43.54) and 78.82% (95% CI = 80.16-77.47), respectively. The biochemical assays revealed an elevated level of metabolic enzymes in the field population. The results provide evidence of resistance against organochlorine and pyrethroid groups in a field population of An. subpictus s.l. from district Kasur mediated by multiple metabolic mechanisms, including acetylcholinesterases, esterases, cytochrome P450 and glutathione S-transferases.	1	pesticide
30780513	Resistance to Boscalid Fungicide in Alternaria alternata Isolates from Pistachio in California.	Boscalid is a new carboxamide fungicide recently introduced in a mixture with pyraclostrobin in the product Pristine for the control of Alternaria late blight of pistachio. In all, 108 isolates of Alternaria alternata were collected from pistachio orchards with (59 isolates) and without (49 isolates) prior exposure to boscalid. The sensitivity to boscalid was determined in conidial germination assays. The majority of isolates from two orchards without a prior history of boscalid usage had effective fungicide concentration to inhibit 50% of spore germination (EC50) values ranging from 0.089 to 3.435 μg/ml, and the mean EC50 was 1.515 μg/ml. Out of 59 isolates collected from an orchard with a history of boscalid usage, 52 isolates had EC50 values ranging from 0.055 to 4.222 μg/ml, and the mean EC50 was 1.214 μg/ml. However, in vitro tests for conidial germination and mycelial growth also revealed that seven A. alternata isolates, originating from the orchard exposed to boscalid were highly resistant (EC50 > 100 μg/ml) to this fungicide. Furthermore, in vitro tests showed no significant differences between wild-type and boscalid-resistant mutants in some fitness parameters such as spore germination, hyphal growth, sporulation, or virulence on pistachio leaves. Experiments on the stability of the boscalid-resistant phenotype showed no reduction of the resistance after the mutants were grown on fungicide-free medium. Preventative applications of a commercial formulation of boscalid (Endura) at a concentration which is effective against naturally sensitive isolates failed to control disease caused by the boscalid-resistant isolates in laboratory tests. To our knowledge, this is first report of field isolates of fungi resistant to boscalid.	1	pesticide
30781180	Rain Fastness and Persistence of Fungicides for Control of Alternaria Brown Spot of Citrus.	Field persistence and simulated rain experiments were conducted to determine the residual activity and rain fastness of several fungicides used for the control of Alternaria brown spot of citrus. Fungicidal activity persisted well in simulated rain experiments, despite the high rainfall amounts tested (40 mm in 2004 and 90 mm in 2005). However, most of the fungicides showed a significant reduction of disease control on fruit of 'Fortune' mandarin in the orchard after natural rain in 2004. Fruit growth rate was low and did not appear to play an important role in decline of fungicide residues. Copper products showed longer residual activity on fruit and higher rain fastness than did mancozeb, difenoconazole, iprodione, famoxadone, and pyraclostrobin. Cuprous oxide and copper oxychloride SC provided satisfactory disease control on fruit through 28 days and withstood 71 mm of rainfall in the orchard. A 4-week schedule with copper compounds is proposed for disease control on Fortune fruit during periods of weather favorable for disease development. Respray to replace fungicide deposit seems to be necessary only after heavy or wind-driven rains. With this program, about half of the sprays applied per season for fruit protection could be saved compared with the current schedule in Spain.	1	pesticide
30786589	Cryopreservation of Synchytrium solstitiale In Planta.	The fungus Synchytrium solstitiale is a candidate for use as a biocontrol agent against Centaurea solstitialis. This obligate parasite can be propagated only in planta, which necessitates development of a method for preserving cultures for longer periods of time for routine biological studies and shipment to other laboratories. Normally, sporangia embedded within the plant tissue release zoospores when submersed in water at temperatures above freezing. To examine what chemicals might inhibit zoospore release, infected tissue was exposed to different suspensions of fungicides. Cycloheximide and benomyl completely inhibited zoospore release or immediately induced encystment from tissue stored in these two chemicals, respectively. A few zoospores were released in suspensions of iprodione and propionic acid but were not motile. However, when tissue stored in iprodione or propionic acid was transferred to fresh distilled water, abundant active zoospores were released. Freezing the infected tissue at different temperatures in different cryoprotectants also affected the release of motile zoospores. Infected C. solstitialis tissue was immersed in water, water plus iprodione, methanol, ethylene glycol, dimethyl sulfoxide, glycerol, skim milk, trehalose, or sucrose and subjected to different temperatures for various periods of time. Some treatments protected the viability of the fungus for a shorter period of time whereas other treatments completely inhibited release. The best results were obtained when infected tissue was stored at -2°C in 0.5 M sucrose where active zoospores were released after 12 weeks of storage. Overall, results obtained from this study demonstrate a technique for long-term storage of S. solstitiale.	1	pesticide
30805725	Grapevine trunk diseases under thermal and water stresses.	MAIN CONCLUSION: Heat and water stresses, individually or combined, affect both the plant (development, physiology, and production) and the pathogens (growth, morphology, dissemination, distribution, and virulence). The grapevine response to combined abiotic and biotic stresses is complex and cannot be inferred from the response to each single stress. Several factors might impact the response and the recovery of the grapevine, such as the intensity, duration, and timing of the stresses. In the heat/water stress-GTDs-grapevine interaction, the nature of the pathogens, and the host, i.e., the nature of the rootstock, the cultivar and the clone, has a great importance. This review highlights the lack of studies investigating the response to combined stresses, in particular molecular studies, and the misreading of the relationship between rootstock and scion in the relationship GTDs/abiotic stresses. Grapevine trunk diseases (GTDs) are one of the biggest threats to vineyard sustainability in the next 30 years. Although many treatments and practices are used to manage GTDs, there has been an increase in the prevalence of these diseases due to several factors such as vineyard intensification, aging vineyards, or nursery practices. The ban of efficient treatments, i.e., sodium arsenite, carbendazim, and benomyl, in the early 2000s may be partly responsible for the fast spread of these diseases. However, GTD-associated fungi can act as endophytes for several years on, or inside the vine until the appearance of the first symptoms. This prompted several researchers to hypothesise that abiotic conditions, especially thermal and water stresses, were involved in the initiation of GTD symptoms. Unfortunately, the frequency of these abiotic conditions occurring is likely to increase according to the recent consensus scenario of climate change, especially in wine-growing areas. In this article, following a review on the impact of combined thermal and water stresses on grapevine physiology, we will examine (1) how this combination of stresses might influence the lifestyle of GTD pathogens, (2) learnings from grapevine field experiments and modelling aiming at studying biotic and abiotic stresses, and (3) what mechanistic concepts can be used to explain how these stresses might affect the grapevine plant status.	1	pesticide
30812588	Effect of Timing of Fungicide Applications on Development of Rusts on Daylily, Geranium, and Sunflower.	Integrated disease management should provide the most effective means of controlling rusts on ornamental crops over time, and fungicides are an important component of an integrated rust management program. Proper timing of fungicide applications is critical for effective disease management; however, information about application timing is lacking for rusts on ornamental crops. The objective of this study was to determine how fungicides affected rust development on daylily, geranium, and sunflower plants when applied several days before or after inoculation. Five fungicides registered for use against rusts on ornamental crops were evaluated: the strobilurin azoxystrobin; three sterol biosynthesis inhibiting fungicides-myclobutanil, propiconazole, and triadimefon; and the broad spectrum protectant chlorothalonil. All five fungicides significantly reduced lesion development by rust pathogens on daylily, geranium, and sunflower plants when these compounds were applied preventatively up to 15 days before inoculation and infection with a few exceptions (e.g., propiconazole on geranium and triadimefon on sunflower). Curative activity, which resulted from fungicide application after inoculation, was observed for the three rusts with some products (azoxystrobin on all three plants and myclobutanil, propiconazole, and triadimefon on geranium) when applied up to 7 days postinoculation. In general, fungicide efficacy with several of the products decreased as the time from application to inoculation (preventative activity) or inoculation to application (curative activity) increased.	1	pesticide
30818706	Management of Late Leaf Spot of Peanut with Benomyl and Chlorothalonil: A Study in Preserving Fungicide Utility.	Recent registration of sterol biosynthesis inhibitor and strobilurin fungicides for control of early (Cercospora arachidicola) and late (Cercosporidium personatum) leaf spot diseases of peanut (Arachis hypogaea) has renewed interest in the potential for loss of disease control due to fungicide resistance. The objectives of this study were to use the systemic fungicide benomyl, the protectant fungicide chlorothalonil, and late leaf spot of peanut as a model system to compare fungicide application strategies for fungicide resistance management. Field experiments were conducted at Tifton and Plains, GA, in 1995 and 1996 to determine the effects of alternate applications, mixtures, and alternating block applications of chlorothalonil and benomyl compared with full-season applications of two rates of chlorothalonil and two rates of benomyl alone on late leaf spot of peanut and on the proportion of the pathogen population resistant to benomyl following the various regimes. Tank mix combinations of half rates of the two fungicides and alternations of the full rates of the two fungicides provided better (P ≤ 0.05) control of late leaf spot than full-season applications of either rate of benomyl alone, and were comparable to full rates of chlorothalonil alone. Neither tank mixes nor alternating sprays prevented an increase in the relative frequency of benomyl-resistant isolates compared with other treatments in which benomyl was used. Both mixtures and alternate applications of chlorothalonil and benomyl were effective for management of leaf spot in fields where benomyl alone did not provide season-long leaf spot control.	1	pesticide
30832077	Effect of Imidacloprid on Incidence of Tomato yellow leaf curl virus.	Confidor, an imidacloprid insecticide, was used in two applications at four rates (47.6, 71.4, 95.2, and 119 g a.i./ha) for indirectly controlling Tomato yellow leaf curl virus (TYLCV) in field plantings of tomato. This spray regimen was compared with standard applications of cypermethrins at 10- to 15-day intervals throughout the growing season. In three field trials, a combination of integrated pest management (IPM) practices and two applications of Confidor at the two highest rates immediately after planting and 6 weeks later, protected tomato plants against the disease until 12 weeks after sowing. All rates of Confidor reduced disease incidence compared with standard chemical control applied in an integrated strategy, and quantitative efficacy increased with increase of insecticide rate. In the three seasons, the mean incidence of TYLCV 12 weeks after sowing was 42.7% in plots not adopting IPM compared with 15.7% in those that did. Disease incidence was reduced by Confidor treatments to 2.2 to 17%. Confidor-treated plots consistently had higher yields than control plots, and the yields decreased with the decrease in the rate of Confidor application. Confidor offers several advantages over standard applications of cypermethrins to control TYLCV. When applied immediately after planting, its long-lasting systemic activity protected the crop against the disease during early stages of growth. In addition, it reduced the number of sprays and increased tomato yield.	1	pesticide
30832296	Exploring the Insecticidal Potential of Boldo (Peumus boldus) Essential Oil: Toxicity to Pests and Vectors and Non-target Impact on the Microcrustacean Daphnia magna.	Every year Chile exports about 2000 tons of boldo folium (Peumus boldus), which is used around the world as a traditional herbal medicinal product (THMP), mostly to relieve gastrointestinal disorders. This biomass may be a resource for the agrochemical industry to manufacture botanical insecticides. In this regard, the insecticidal potential of boldo has been poorly investigated. In the present work, hydrodistillation of a commercial boldo folium gave 1.5% (w/w) of a yellowish essential oil (boldo essential oil, BEO) containing 1,8-cineole (20.7%), p-cymene (18.5%), limonene (9.1%), ascaridole (9.1%) and β-phellandrene (6.4%) as the main constituents, as determined by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). NMR analysis allowed us to determine that ascaridole was mainly represented by the cis-isomer. BEO was toxic to larvae of the filariasis vector Culex quinquefasciatus and adults of the housefly Musca domestica, showing LC50/LD50 values of 67.9 mg·L-1 and 98.5 µg·adult-1, respectively. On the other hand, lower insecticidal activity was observed against larvae of the moth pest Spodoptera littoralis (LD50 of 268.9 µg·larva-1). It is worth noting that, when tested at LC90 concentration, BEO was significantly less toxic to aquatic microcrustacean Daphnia magna than the conventional insecticide α-cypermethrin. Finally, in the attempt to explore the BEO mode of action, we tested it for acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitory properties using the Ellman method, obtaining negligible effects (IC50 = 0.45 mg·mL-1). Taken together, these results gave new insights into the potential of BEO as a future ingredient of botanical insecticides.	1	pesticide
30835785	Comparative Proteomics Analysis Between the Short-Term Stress and Long-Term Adaptation of the Blattella germanica (Blattodea: Blattellidae) in Response to Beta-Cypermethrin.	A proteomic method combining two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and tandem mass spectrometry was used to compare the hemolymph expression profiles of a beta-cypermethrin-resistant Blattella germanica L. strain (R) and a susceptible strain (S) after 24 h of beta-cypermethrin induction. The results showed that there were 42 differentially expressed proteins after induction of the R strain: 4 proteins were upregulated and 38 proteins were downregulated. One hundred one hemolymph proteins were differentially expressed after induction of the S strain: 53 proteins were upregulated and 48 proteins were downregulated. The identified proteins were mainly classified into the following categories: energy metabolism proteins such as arginine kinase and triose phosphate isomerase, detoxification-related proteins such as glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), signal molecule-regulated proteins such as nitric oxide synthase (NOS), and other proteins such as kinetic-related proteins and gene expression-related proteins. Several proteins show significant differences in response to short-term stress and long-term adaptation, and differential expression of these proteins reflects an overall change in cellular structure and metabolism associated with resistance to pyrethroid insecticides. In summary, our research has improved the understanding of the molecular mechanisms of beta-cypermethrin resistance in German cockroaches, which will facilitate the development of rational methods to improve the management of this pest.	1	pesticide
30838426	Actively detached Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilm cell susceptibility to benzalkonium chloride and associated resistance mechanism.	The present work aimed at studying physiological properties of Pseudomonas aeruginosa cells actively detached from biofilm formed on stainless steel and comparing them with their planktonic counterparts as a function of growth temperature (20 °C and 37 °C). The susceptibility of P. aeruginosa cells to benzalkonium chloride (BAC) was studied. Furthermore, the effect of BAC on the cell membrane integrity and the role of the cell membrane fluidity in the cell-scale-resistance mechanism were investigated. Our results showed that actively detached biofilm cells were more susceptible to BAC treatment than planktonic ones. A greater leakage of intracellular potassium after BAC addition was observed in actively detached biofilm cells, which reflects their membrane vulnerability. The rise of the growth temperature from 20 to 37 °C increased the membrane rigidity of planktonic cells comparatively to their actively detached biofilm ones. Under experimental conditions developed in this work, our data highlighted that actively biofilm-detached and planktonic P. aeruginosa cells have distinguishable phenotypes.	1	pesticide
30841169	Impact of Azoxystrobin, Dimethomorph, Fluazinam, Fosetyl-Al, and Metalaxyl on Growth, Sporulation, and Zoospore Cyst Germination of Three Phytophthora spp.	In vitro activity of azoxystrobin, dimethomorph, and fluazinam on growth, sporulation, and zoospore cyst germination of Phytophthora capsici, P. citrophthora, and P. parasitica was compared to that of fosetyl-Al and metalaxyl. The 50% effective concentration (EC50) values for)inhibition of mycelial growth of the three pathogens usually were lowest for dimethomorph and (metalaxyl, ranging from <0.1 to 0.38 μg/ml. However, the 90% effective concentration (EC90) levels for dimethomorph always were lower than the other four tested compounds, with values ranging from 0.32 to 1.6 μg/ml. Mycelial growth of P. capsici, P. citrophthora, and P. parasitica was least affected by azoxystrobin and fluazinam, with estimated (EC90) values >3,000 μg/ml. Reduction of sporangium formation by P. capsici, P. citrophthora, and P. parasitica in the presence of dimethomorph at 1 μg/ml was significantly greater than that recorded for the same concentration of azoxystrobin, fluazinam, and fosetyl-Al. For the three species of Phytophthora, zoospore motility was most sensitive to fluazinam (EC50 and EC90 values of <0.001 μg/ml) and (least sensitive to fosetyl-Al, with (EC50 and EC90 values ranging from 299 to 334 and 518 to 680 μg/ml, respectively). Germination of encysted zoospores of P. capsici, P. citrophthora, and P. parasitica was most sensitive to dimethomorph (EC50 and EC90 values ranging from 3.3 to 7.2 and 5.6 to 21 μg/ml, respectively), intermediate in sensitivity to fluazinam (EC50 and EC90 from 18 to 108 and 67 to >1,000 μg/ml, respectively) and metalaxyl (EC50 and EC90 from 32 to 280 and 49 to 529 μg/ml, respectively), and lowest in sensitivity to azoxystrobin and fosetyl-Al (EC50 and EC90 from 256 to >1,000 μg/ml). The activity of azoxystrobin, dimethomorph, and fluazinam on one or more stages of the life cycle of P. capsici, P. citrophthora, and P. parasitica suggests that these compounds potentially could provide Phytophthora spp. disease control comparable to that of the established fungicides fosetyl-Al and metalaxyl.	1	pesticide
30847031	The Effect of Temperature on the Development of Trilocha varians (Lepidoptera: Bombycidae) and Control of the Ficus Plant Pest.	Ficus plants are commonly planted as ornamentals along roadsides in Malaysia. In 2010, Ficus plants in Kuala Terengganu were found to be attacked by a moth, identified as Trilocha varians. The larvae of this moth fed on Ficus leaves causing up to 100% defoliation. This study was conducted to determine the life cycle of T. varians under two different environmental temperatures and to control this pest using two different insecticides. Our findings showed that there were significant differences in the time taken for eggs to hatch and larval and pupation period between low and high environmental temperatures. Results also showed that fipronil had lower LT50 and LT95 than malathion. This study provides new information on the life history of T. varians under two different conditions and the efficiency in controlling T. varians larvae using insecticides. The results of this study are important for future management in controlling T. varians population especially in Kuala Terengganu, Malaysia.	1	pesticide
30851698	Prenatal exposure to the herbicide 2,4-D is associated with deficits in auditory processing during infancy.	INTRODUCTION: Despite widespread use, many herbicides and fungicides are not well studied for neurological effects. Fetal and infant brains are rapidly developing, yet the effects of early-life exposure to these classes of pesticides on visual and auditory function are unknown. Here we examined the effects of prenatal herbicide and fungicide exposure on infant grating visual acuity (VA) and auditory brainstem response (ABR). METHODS: 9 herbicides and 13 fungicides were measured in umbilical cord blood plasma from a cohort of infants in Fuyang County, China (n = 232). Grating VA and ABR latencies for waves I, III, V were measured at 3 time points: 6 weeks, 9 months, and 18 months. Outcomes included VA score, ABR wave V latency and ABR central conduction time (CCT [wave V- wave I]). Pesticides were analyzed as 3-level ordinal (non-detect [ND]/medium/high), or dichotomous (ND/detect), depending on detection rates. Linear mixed models were used to evaluate relations between pesticides and VA and ABR outcomes. RESULTS: 2,4-dichloroacetic acid (2,4-D), prometryn, simazine, and tetrahydrophthalamide (THPI, a metabolite of captan) were detected in 27%, 81%, 17%, and 16% of samples, respectively. Infants prenatally exposed to 2,4-D had slower auditory response times at 6 weeks. Infants with cord levels of 2,4-D > 1.17 ng/mL had wave V latencies that were 0.12 (95% CI: 0.03, 0.22) ms slower (p = 0.01) and overall CCTs that were 0.15 (95% CI:0.05, 0.25) ms slower (p = 0.003) than infants with non-detectable 2,4-D in their cord blood. No other statistically significant findings were observed for the other herbicides and fungicides or for the grating VA outcome. CONCLUSIONS: Prenatal exposure to the herbicide 2,4-D was associated with slower auditory signal transmission in early infancy. ABR latencies reflect auditory pathway maturation and longer latencies may indicate delayed auditory development.	1	pesticide
30853007	Quantitation of neonicotinoid insecticides, plus qualitative screening for other xenobiotics, in small-mass avian tissue samples using UHPLC high-resolution mass spectrometry.	We developed and validated a liquid chromatography-high-resolution mass spectrometry (LC-HRMS) analytical method for quantitatively measuring pesticide concentrations in small-body avian tissue samples using homogenized 1-2-d-old chicken carcasses as the test matrix. We quantified the following key insecticides: sulfoxaflor (sulfoximine class) and the neonicotinoids dinotefuran, nitenpyram, thiamethoxam, acetamiprid, thiacloprid, clothianidin, and imidacloprid. We used fortified chick carcass samples to validate method accuracy (80-125% recoveries), precision (<20% relative standard deviation), and sensitivity (≤1.2 ppb) for these targeted analytes. This method also uses full-scan, high-resolution MS to screen for the presence of a wide variety of other xenobiotics in bird carcasses. The utility of our screening process was demonstrated by the detection of carbaryl in some samples. This sensitive LC-HRMS analytical method for insecticide detection in a matrix of homogenized carcass is ideal for evaluating small birds for insecticide exposure. This novel whole-carcass method may allow for research studies of small-bodied, free-ranging avian species, and could provide insight regarding their exposure to multiple classes of environmental contaminants.	1	pesticide
30861824	Infection Components of Wild-Type and Mutant Strains of Colletotrichum gloeosporioides f. sp. aeschynomene on Northern Jointvetch.	Colletotrichum gloeosporioides f. sp. aeschynomene causes an anthracnose of northern jointvetch, Aeschynomene virginica. Infection components, including lesion number, latent period, lesion expansion rate, and sporulation, were measured in experiments conducted in controlled environments. Two wild-type strains (3-1-3 and CLA 5A), four benomyl-resistant strains (B13, B15, B18 and B21), and four nitrate nonutilizing mutant strains (Nit A, Nit R, Nit L, and Nit T) of the pathogen were tested. Nitrate nonutilizing strains caused significantly fewer lesions on northern jointvetch than did wild-type and benomyl-resistant strains. Latent periods were significantly shorter for the wild-type strain CLA 5A than for most other strains. Lesion expansion rates of all benomyl-resistant strains were significantly slower than those of the wild- type strains. Large variations in sporulation were observed for most strains, and no differences in sporulation were found between wild-type and mutant strains. The usefulness of infection component analysis for the identification of competitiveness of strains of fungal pathogens for biological control of weeds is discussed.	1	pesticide
30868049	Dechlorination of polychlorobiphenyl degradation metabolites by a recombinant glutathione S-transferase from Acidovorax sp. KKS102.	A glutathione S-transferase (GST) with a potential dehalogenation function against various organochlorine substrates was identified from a polychlorobiphenyl (PCB)-degrading organism, Acidovorax sp. KKS102. A homolog of the gene BphK (biphenyl upper pathway K), named BphK-KKS, was cloned, purified and biochemically characterized. Bioinformatic analysis indicated several conserved amino acids that participated in the catalytic activity of the enzyme, and site-directed mutagenesis of these conserved amino acids revealed their importance in the enzyme's catalytic activity. The wild-type and mutant (C10F, K107T and A180P) recombinant proteins displayed wider substrate specificity. The wild-type recombinant GST reacted towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), ethacrynic acid, hydrogen peroxide and cumene hydroperoxide. The mutated recombinant proteins, however, showed significant variation in specific activities towards the substrates. A combination of a molecular docking study and a chloride ion detection assay showed potential interaction with and a dechlorination function against 2-, 3- and 4-chlorobenzoates (metabolites generated during PCB biodegradation) in addition to some organochlorine pesticides (dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane, endosulfan and permethrin). It was demonstrated that the behavior of the dechlorinating activities varied among the wild-type and mutant recombinant proteins. Kinetic studies (using CDNB and glutathione) showed that the kinetic parameters Km, Vmax, Kcat and Km/Kcat were all affected by the mutations. While C10F and A180P mutants displayed an increase in GST activity and the dechlorination function of the enzyme, the K107T mutant displayed variable results, suggesting a functional role of Lys107 in determining substrate specificity of the enzyme. These results demonstrated that the enzyme should be valuable in the bioremediation of metabolites generated during PCB biodegradation.	1	pesticide
30871639	Susceptibility of wild-caught Lutzomyia longipalpis (Diptera: Psychodidae) sand flies to insecticide after an extended period of exposure in western São Paulo, Brazil.	BACKGROUND: In Brazil, members of the sand fly species complex Lutzomyia longipalpis transmit Leishmania infantum, a protist parasite that causes visceral leishmaniasis. Male Lu. longipalpis produce a sex pheromone that is attractive to both females and males. During a cluster randomised trial, to determine the combined effect of synthetic sex-aggregation pheromone and insecticide on Le. infantum transmission Lu. longipalpis had been continuously exposed to insecticide for 30 months. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of continuous exposure to the insecticides used in the trial on the susceptibility of Lu. longipalpis population. METHODS: During the trial the sand flies had been exposed to either lambda-cyhalothrin [pheromone + residual insecticide spray (PI)], deltamethrin [dog collars (DC)] or no insecticide [control (C)], for 30 months (November 2012 to April 2015). The insecticide treatment regime was kept in place for an additional 12 months (May 2015-April 2016) during this susceptibility study. Sand flies collected from the field were exposed to WHO insecticide-impregnated papers cyhalothrin (0.05%), deltamethrin (0.5%) and control (silicone oil) in a modified WHO insecticide exposure trial to determine their susceptibility. RESULTS: We collected 788 Lu. longipalpis using CDC-light traps in 31 municipalities across the three trial arms. Probit analysis showed that the knockdown times (KDTs) of Lu. longipalpis collected from the lambda-cyhalothrin exposed PI-arm [KDT50: 31.1 min, confidence interval (CI): 29.6-32.6 and KDT90: 44.2 min, CI: 42.1-46.7] were longer than the KDTs from the non-insecticide-treated C-arm (KDT50: 26.3 min, CI: 25.1-27.6 and KDT90: 38.2, CI: 36.5-40.2) (no-overlapping 95% CIs). KDTs of Lu. longipalpis collected from the deltamethrin exposed DC-arm had similar values (KDT50: 13.7 min, CI: 10.1-16.2 and KDT90: 26.7 min, CI: 21.8-30.6) to those for the C-arm (KDT50: 13.5 min; CI: 12.2-14.8 and KDT90: 23.2 min, CI: 21.4-25.4) (overlapping CIs). The wild-caught unexposed Lu. longipalpis (C-arm), took approximately twice as long to knock down as laboratory-colonised specimens for both insecticides. CONCLUSIONS: Our study reveals slight changes in KDT, in sand flies after prolonged exposure to lambda-cyhalothrin in the presence of pheromone. These changes are not considered to have reached the reference levels indicative of resistance in sand flies suggesting that pheromone and insecticide treatment at the level indicated in this study do not constitute a significant risk of increased insecticide resistance. Prolonged exposure to deltamethrin in dog collars did not result in changes to KDT.	1	pesticide
30886154	A neonicotinoid pesticide impairs foraging, but not learning, in free-flying bumblebees.	Neonicotinoids are widely-used pesticides implicated in the decline of bees, known to have sub-lethal effects on bees' foraging and colony performance. One proposed mechanism for these negative effects is impairment to bees' ability to learn floral associations. However, the effects of neonicotinoids on learning performance have largely been addressed using a single protocol, where immobilized bees learn an association based on a single sensory modality. We thus have an incomplete understanding of how these pesticides affect bee learning in more naturalistic foraging scenarios. We carried out the first free-foraging study into the effects of acute exposure of a neonicotinoid (imidacloprid) on bumblebees' (Bombus impatiens) ability to learn associations with visual stimuli. We uncovered dose-dependent detrimental effects on motivation to initiate foraging, amount of nectar collected, and initiation of subsequent foraging bouts. However, we did not find any impairment to bees' ability to learn visual associations. While not precluding the possibility that other forms of learning are impaired, our findings suggest that some of the major effects of acute neonicotinoid exposure on foraging performance may be due to motivational and/or sensory impairments. In light of these findings, we discuss more broadly how pesticide effects on pollinator cognition might be studied.	1	pesticide
30886368	The spread of resistance to imidacloprid is restricted by thermotolerance in natural populations of Drosophila melanogaster.	Imidacloprid, the world's most used insecticide, has caused considerable controversy due to harmful effects on non-pest species and increasing evidence showing that insecticides have become the primary selective force in many insect species. The genetic response to insecticides is heterogeneous across populations and environments, leading to more complex patterns of genetic variation than previously thought. This motivated the investigation of imidacloprid resistance at different temperatures in natural populations of Drosophila melanogaster originating from four climate extremes replicated across two continents. Population and quantitative genomic analysis, supported by functional tests, have revealed a mixed genetic architecture to resistance involving major genes (Paramyosin and Nicotinic-Acetylcholine Receptor Alpha 3) and polygenes with a major trade-off with thermotolerance. Reduced genetic differentiation at resistance-associated loci indicated enhanced gene flow at these loci. Resistance alleles showed stronger evidence of positive selection in temperate populations compared to tropical populations in which chromosomal inversions In(2 L)t, In(3 R)Mo and In(3 R)Payne harbour susceptibility alleles. Polygenic architecture and ecological factors should be considered when developing sustainable management strategies for both pest and beneficial insects.	1	pesticide
30898333	Occurrence and ecological risk of pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCPs) and pesticides in typical surface watersheds, China.	To evaluate the occurrence and ecological risk of organic contaminants in aquatic environment in China, a method for simultaneously detecting 130 pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCPs) and 35 pesticides has been established using solid phase extraction-ultra performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (SPE-UPLC-MS/MS) method. In the present survey, a total of 122 target compounds (103 PPCPs and 19 pesticides) were detected in seven major watersheds in China, with average concentrations ranged from 0.02 ng/L (sulfamerazine) to 332.75 ng/L (bisphenol A), revealing that PPCPs and pesticides were widely distributed in surface water of China. Antibiotics and organophosphorus were the most ubiquitously PPCPs and pesticides, respectively; quinolones were the predominant antibiotics, most of which were detected in more than 96% sampling sites, with average concentrations ranged from 2.14 to 309.67 ng/L; six pesticides including isoprocarb, fenobucarb, acetamiprid, imidacloprid, acetochlor and bentazone were detected in more than 80% sampling sites, with average concentrations ranged from 5.62 to 225.93 ng/L; more than half of the non-antibiotic pharmaceuticals were hormones; and diethyltoluamide (DEET) was predominant personal care products; The risk assessment showed that each watershed was at potential medium ecological risk based on their mean concentration (RQTotal > 1), and pesticides were the main compounds arising risks.	1	pesticide
30898542	Mutations in Rhipicephalus microplus GABA gated chloride channel gene associated with fipronil resistance.	The tropical cattle tick, Rhipicephalus microplus, is one of the most damaging parasites that affects cattle in tropical and subtropical regions in the world. Tick resistance to acaricides is dispersed worldwide and a number of associated mutations in target site genes have been described. Phenylpyrazole (e.g. fipronil) and cyclodiene (e.g. lindane, dieldrin) insecticides both have the same mode of action blocking the GABA-gated chloride channel encoded by the GABA-Cl gene. A conserved mutation, rdl (resistance to dieldrin) is found across a number of arthropods resistant to cyclodienes and phenylpyrazoles. In ticks, the mutation T290 L, was identified in the second transmembrane (TM2) domain of the GABA-gated chloride channel of Australian cattle tick populations that are resistant to dieldrin. Recently, cross-resistance between fipronil and lindane was reported in R. microplus populations obtained from Uruguay and Brazil. The objective of the present study was to identify mutations in the GABA-Cl gene associated with fipronil resistance. Genomic DNA was obtained from engorged females from fipronil-susceptible and resistant populations sampled from Uruguay and Brazil (n = 166). Initially, it was searched the T290 L mutation described in Australia; however, this mutation was not detected in individuals from resistant populations from either country. The sequencing of a fragment of the GABA-Cl gene revealed nucleotide polymorphisms in fipronil- and lindane-resistant ticks in two populations from Uruguay and five from Brazil. Five amino acid substitutions were present in the resistant strains. Two different substitutions were found in an alanine residue (A286S and A286 L) that is homolog to rdl mutations in fipronil-resistant individuals of other arthropod species. Four other amino acid substitutions (S281 T, V317I, T328 A and A329S) were present in some resistant strains, always with the mutation A286S. This is the first documentation of mutations in the GABA-Cl gene associated with fipronil-resistant in R. microplus.	1	pesticide
30901782	Heterogeneous degradation of pesticides by OH radicals in the atmosphere: Influence of humidity and particle type on the kinetics.	Pesticides can be adsorbed on the surface of atmospheric aerosol, depending on their physicochemical properties. They can be degraded by atmospheric oxidants such as OH radicals but the influence of some environmental parameters on the degradation kinetics, especially relative humidity and particle surface type, is not well understood. Heterogeneous degradation by OH radicals of eight commonly used pesticides (i.e., difenoconazole, tetraconazole, cyprodinil, fipronil, oxadiazon, pendimethalin, deltamethrin, and permethrin) adsorbed on hydrophobic and hydrophilic silicas at a relative humidity ranging from 0% to 70% was studied. Under experimental conditions, only cyprodinil, deltamethrin, permethrin, and pendimethalin were degraded by OH radical in atmospheric relevant concentration. Second-order kinetic constants calculated for the pesticides degraded by OH radicals ranged from (1.93 ± 0.61) × 10-13 cm3 molecule-1 s-1 (permethrin, hydrophobic silica, 30% RH) to (4.08 ± 0.27) × 10-12 cm3 molecule-1 s-1 (pendimethalin, hydrophilic silica, 0% RH). Results obtained can contribute to improve the understanding of the atmospheric fate of pesticides and other semi-volatile organic compounds in the particulate phase and they highlight the importance of taking humidity and particle type into account for the determination of pesticides atmospheric half-lives.	1	pesticide
30904688	An ultra-sensitive aptasensor based on carbon nanohorns/gold nanoparticles composites for impedimetric detection of carbendazim at picogram levels.	We reported a carbon nanohorns/gold nanoparticles composites-based impedimetric aptasensor for carbendazim (CBZ) detection in lettuce and orange juice at picogram levels. The increased electron-transfer resistance, resulting from the formation of CBZ-aptamer complex, was recorded by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy as the aptasensor response for CBZ. Under the optimal conditions, the proposed aptasensor displayed a linear response for CBZ ranging from 1 to 1000 pg mL-1 with a detection limit of 0.5 pg mL-1. Noteworthy, the as-developed aptasensor displayed the lowest detection limit for CBZ among the previously reported methods. Common pesticides (atrazine, thiamethoxam, etc.) with 100-fold concentration did not interfere the CBZ detection. For CBZ detection in lettuce and orange juice, satisfactory recoveries were obtained with standard addition method. Statistics demonstrated that no significant differences were found between the data provided by standard HPLC-MS reference method and developed aptasensing method in term of accuracy and precision. We believe that the proposed aptasensor possesses a potential application for CBZ monitoring in agricultural product and food.	1	pesticide
30921888	Efficacy of Germicidal Hand Wash Agents Against Transient Bacteria Inoculated onto Hands.	The efficacy of germicidal hand wash agents against transient bacteria ( Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas fluorescens ) in ground beef rubbed onto hands was determined using a hand rinse sampling technique. The reduction in E. coli and P. fluorescens counts on selective growth media and the change in count on Baird-Parker medium were used to indicate action against transient and resident bacteria, respectively. Most of the agents tested, including 4% chlorhexidine gluconate, iodophor (0.75% available iodine), Irgasan DP 300, para-chloro-meta-xylenol (PCMX) as well as the non-germicidal soap, gave marked reduction in counts of E. coli and P. fluorescens (>90% reduction), even after one 15-s wash. The hand dip treatments with iodophor (25 ppm available iodine), hypochlorite (50 ppm available chlorine) or QAC (930 ppm benzalkonium chloride) were generally less effective than hand wash treatments, especially against P. fluorescens . Iodophor (0.75% available iodine) and 4% chlorhexidine gluconate significantly reduced more E. coli on hands than the other agents.	1	pesticide
30927304	Water-soluble food dye of Allura Red as a tracer to determine the spray deposition of pesticide on target crops.	BACKGROUND: Quantification of spray deposition on a target crop is of vital importance to optimize pesticide application. In traditional determinations of spray deposition, a large amount of organic solvent is used to extract pesticides from the target crops. In this study, a water-soluble food dye of Allura Red was developed as a tracer to determine pesticide spray deposition on a rice target crop. RESULTS: The addition of Allura Red does not obviously alter the physicochemical properties of pesticides (viscosity, density and surface tension) and droplet spectra. An ultra-performance liquid chromatography (UPLC) analytical method was developed and validated to determine the deposition amount of Allura Red on rice plants. Method accuracy and precision for Allura Red were found to be satisfactory with recoveries of 96.07% to 107.48%. To validate the method, comparative deposition analyses were carried out using representative systematic and non-systematic pesticides (nitenpyram and chlorothalonil) under the same spraying scenarios using a Potter spray tower. Allura Red and pesticides showed comparable deposition under the same application conditions with ratios from 0.98 to 1.21. A field trial using an unmanned aerial vehicle sprayer further indicated that the deposition rates for Allura Red and nitenpyram on rice seedling were 13.04% and 11.07%, with corresponding relative standard deviation values (n = 5) of 16.39% and 18.79%. CONCLUSION: A laboratory test and field trial confirmed that the developed method of using Allura Red as a tracer for spray deposition assessment is feasible and practicable. © 2019 Society of Chemical Industry.	1	pesticide
30929354	[Study on the effect of occupational exposure to glyphosate on blood routine].	Objective: To investigate the effect of glyphosate on blood routine of occupational exposure population. Methods: The workers who were occupationally exposed to glyphosate were selected as exposure group, and administrative staffs who were not exposed to glyphosate were selected as control group. Occupational health examination was conducted on all the subjects, and personal monitoring was applied to detect the concentration of glyphosate in the air of workplace. Time weighted average (TWA) concentration was calculated by the result of determination. Statistical methods were employed to compare the difference of blood routine results between the contact group and the control group, as well as between different posts. Results: 178 glyphosate workers were included in the contact group, and 203 non-contact persons were included in the control group. There was no statistically significant difference in the equilibrium test between the two groups(P>0.05). The abnormal rate of blood routine in the exposure group and the control group were 70.8% and 69.0%, respectively, but the difference was not statistically significant (P>0.05). Compared with the control group, the red blood cell count and platelet distribution width difference (P<0.05) were significant difference. There was no significant difference between different positions (P>0.05). Conclusion: When TWA value is below 9.40 mg/m(3), glyphosate has effect on the results of platelet distribution width and red blood cell count, but has no effect on the abnormal rate of blood routine.	1	pesticide
30948040	Magnetic adsorbent based on mesoporous silica nanoparticles for magnetic solid phase extraction of pyrethroid pesticides in water samples.	Mesoporous KIT-6-magnetite composite (Fe3O4@SiO2@KIT-6) was successfully prepared and characterized by transmission electron microscopy, scan electron microscopy, elemental mapping, energy dispersive X-ray spectrum, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, thermal gravimetric analysis, X-ray powder diffraction, Brunauer Emmett Teller analysis and magnetic property analysis. It was then applied as adsorbent for magnetic solid phase extraction of fenpropathrin, lambda-cyhalothrin, S-fenvalerate and bifenthrin from water samples before analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography-ultraviolet detector. A few factors impacting extraction were studied. The optimal results were acquired by using acetonitrile to eluent the targets adsorbed on 40 mg of Fe3O4@SiO2@KIT-6 adsorbent in 100 mL water samples at a pH of 7 at 25 ℃ within 10 min. The experimental limit of detections of fenpropathrin, cyhalothrin, S-fenvalerate and bifenthrin are 0.01 × 10-3, 0.006 × 10-3, 0.01 × 10-3 and 0.005 × 10-3 mg∙L-1, respectively. Good relative recoveries (86.58-98.80%) and reproducibility values are also obtained. The kinetic experiment shows that the adsorption follows pseudo-second order, while the isotherm experiment follows Langmuir isotherm model. Trace pyrethroid pesticides in water samples can be detected by the developed magnetic solid phase extraction technique followed by high performance liquid chromatography, which is simple, easy, environmental friendly and efficient.	1	pesticide
30950203	Efficacy of reduced rates of chlorantraniliprole seed treatment on insect pests of irrigated drill-seeded rice.	BACKGROUND: For the past decade, insecticidal seed treatment has been the most widely used control tactic against insect pests of rice (Oryza sativa L.) in the USA. Seed treatments are used primarily to control the most economically important early-season pest of rice, the rice water weevil (Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel). This study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of reduced rates of chlorantraniliprole seed treatment against the rice water weevil, fall armyworm (Spodoptera frugiperda J.E. Smith), and sugarcane borer (Diatraea saccharalis F.) under field and laboratory conditions. Concentrations of chlorantraniliprole in plant tissues were determined at vegetative and reproductive developmental stages of rice plants. RESULTS: Chlorantraniliprole seed treatment reduced the densities of rice water weevil larvae relative to non-treated controls even at rates 75% lower than the label rate. Increased mortality of fall armyworm larvae was observed at reduced seed treatment rates relative to a non-treated control. Chlorantraniliprole seed treatment increased the mortality of sugarcane borer larvae at all rates relative to controls and the mortality was consistently higher in larvae that were fed stems from treated plants at the vegetative developmental stage than larvae that were fed stems from plants at the reproductive stage. Concentrations of chlorantraniliprole in plant tissues increased with seed treatment rate and decreased with plant age. CONCLUSION: This study has shown that reduced chlorantraniliprole seed treatment rates can provide adequate control against the rice water weevil, fall armyworm, and sugarcane borer, particularly at early developmental stages of rice plants. © 2019 Society of Chemical Industry.	1	pesticide
30956433	Effects of glyphosate on soybean metabolism in strains bred for glyphosate-resistance.	To produce high quality, glyphosate-resistant soybeans, we crossed Jinda 73 and glyphosate-resistant RR1 (Roundup Ready First Generation) (RR1) resulting in 34 hybrid strains. To determine the effects of glyphosate on soybean metabolism, we grew the two parents upto the seedling stage, and measured chlorophyll, soluble sugar, malondialdehyde (MDA), relative conductivity and proline. Then, we treated the plants with glyphosate and measured the same factors again. Results showed that the chlorophyll content of Jinda 73 and RR1 decreased after spraying glyphosate. Glyphosate increased the level of soluble sugar, MDA, relative conductivity and proline in Jinda 73, but had no significant effect on RR1. We determined glyphosate resistance of the parents and the 34 hybrid, offspring strains by documenting the growth response in the field after treatment with glyphosate. Results showed that 29 hybrid, offspring strains have complete glyphosate resistance. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) shows that the strains which have complete resistance to glyphosate have imported the CP4 5-enolpyhruvylshikimate-3- phosphate synthase (CP4 EPSPS) gene successfully. We selected three high quality, glyphosate-resistant strains (F7-3, F7-16 and F7-21), which had higher protein and oil levels as compared with Jinda 73.	1	pesticide
30972909	Non-target effects of herbicides on Tetranychus urticae and its predator, Phytoseiulus persimilis: implications for biological control.	BACKGROUND: A key element of conservation biocontrol is identifying and limiting the use of pesticides that have substantial non-target effects on natural enemies to prevent biocontrol disruption. The Phytoseiidae (predatory mites) are one of the most studied natural enemy groups in the field of pesticide non-target effects. Although there is substantial research on the non-target effects of insecticides on arthropod natural enemies, research on herbicide impacts is limited. Natural enemies, including phytoseiids, associate with weeds due to the presence of alternative prey, shelter, or floral resources. Therefore, a whole-systems approach to integrated pest management should integrate weed management with biocontrol. We conducted a study to examine the non-target effects of vegetable herbicides on Phytoseiulus persimilis Athias-Henriot, and the primary pest that it controls, Tetranychus urticae Koch. Two assays were used to assess the effects of direct application and walking on residues. RESULTS: In both assays, S-metolachlor was highly toxic to P. persimilis (80-90% mortality) and had minimal effect on T. urticae. Dicamba, oxyfluorfen, and napropamide also caused moderate levels of P. persimilis mortality (21-74%). Check mortality of P. persimilis was higher in the direct contact assay (19%) than the residue assay (3%). CONCLUSIONS: Halosulfuron-methyl, flumioxazin, and mesotrione were the most compatible herbicides with biocontrol by P. persimilis, whereas S-metolachlor and napropamide were the least compatible. We also determined that the residue assay may be more useful than direct contact slide-dips for future assessment of herbicide non-target effects. Future efforts should continue to examine the impacts of weed management on natural enemies to better integrate pest management practices. © 2019 Society of Chemical Industry.	1	pesticide
30981304	Acaricidal efficacy of deltamethrin-zinc oxide nanocomposite on Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) annulatus tick.	In the veterinary field, there is a great concern about the issue of acaricides resistance in cattle ticks. A comparative study was designed to evaluate the in vitro acaricidal efficacy of imidacloprid nano-emulsion, zinc oxide nanoparticles (ZnO NPs), silver nanoparticles (Ag NPs), deltamethrin, deltamethrin-ZnO NPs, and deltamethrin-Ag NPs. In addition, the novel formulations of deltamethrin (deltamethrin-ZnO NPs and deltamethrin-Ag NPs) against Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) annulatus were also evaluated by in vivo animal efficacy trials. Nanoparticles and their loaded forms, deltamethrin-Ag NPs and deltamethrin-ZnO NPs, were characterized by Transmission Electron Microscope (TEM) and Fourier-Transform Infrared Spectrum (FTIR). The adulticidal activity of deltamethrin-ZnO NPs at different concentrations; 2 mL/L, 1 mL/L, 0.5 mL/L and 0.25 mL/L induced a significant (P ≤ 0.05) lethal effect on adult ticks compared to deltamethrin-Ag NPs at the same concentrations. The larvicidal efficacy of deltamethrin-ZnO NPs resulted in a complete larval mortality within 24 h of exposure, while deltamethrin and deltamethrin-Ag NPs exhibited 100% immobility of larvae 48 h post-exposure. Furthermore, the in vivo experiments showed a considerable reduction in the tick's survival after using deltamethrin-ZnO NPs. There was no significant effect of different treatments on liver or kidney function tests at pre- and post-treatment of animals. In conclusion, deltamethrin-ZnO nanocomposite was the most effective adulticide and larvicide against R. (B.) annulatus. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report for using deltamethrin-ZnO NPs as an acaricide.	1	pesticide
30981933	Widespread occurrence and spatial distribution of glyphosate, atrazine, and neonicotinoids pesticides in the St. Lawrence and tributary rivers.	The occurrence and spatial distribution of selected pesticides were investigated along a 200-km reach of the St. Lawrence River (SLR) and tributaries in Quebec, Canada. Surface water samples (n = 68) were collected in the summer 2017 and analyzed for glyphosate, atrazine (ATZ), 8 systemic insecticides (acetamiprid, clothianidin, dinotefuran, fipronil, imidacloprid, nitenpyram, thiacloprid, and thiamethoxam) and some metabolites. Overall, 99% of the surface water samples were positive to at least one of the targeted pesticides. The most recurrent compounds were glyphosate (detection frequency: 84%), ATZ (82%), thiamethoxam (59%), desethylatrazine (DEA: 47%), and clothianidin (46%). Glyphosate displayed variable levels (4-3,000 ng L-1), with higher concentrations in south tributaries (e.g., Nicolet and Yamaska). In positive samples, the sum of ATZ and DEA varied between 5 and 860 ng L-1, and the sum of 6 priority neonicotinoids between 1.5 and 115 ng L-1. From Repentigny to the Sorel Islands, the spatial distribution of pesticides within the St. Lawrence River was governed by the different upstream sources (i.e., Great Lakes vs. Ottawa River) due to the limited mixing of the different water masses. Cross-sectional patterns revealed higher concentrations of glyphosate and neonicotinoids in the north portions of transects, while the middle and south portions showed higher levels of atrazine. In Lake St. Pierre and further downstream, cross-sections revealed higher levels of the targeted pesticides near the southern portions of the SLR. This may be due to the higher contributions from south shore tributaries impacted by major agricultural areas, compared to north shore tributaries with forest land and less cropland use. Surface water samples were compliant with guidelines for the protection of aquatic life (chronic effects) for glyphosate and atrazine. However, 31% of the samples were found to surpass the guideline value of 8.3 ng L-1 for the sum of six priority neonicotinoids.	1	pesticide
30989013	Molecular Dynamics Insights for Screening the Ability of Polymers to Remove Pesticides from Water.	The use of pesticides in agriculture is known to have environmental impacts, namely it leads to underground and spring water contamination. Thus, it turns out that nowadays general-endeavor towards the sustainability of farmer production requires novel strategies to capture pesticides from water and soils. We propose a methodology based on molecular dynamics simulations to identify polymers that are potentially featured to be applied for pesticide remediation in water and soils. We have employed cymoxanil (CYM), glufosinate ammonium (GLF), imidacloprid (IMI) and mancozeb (MAN) as pesticides, and have tested polymers with different characteristics as removing agents. Specifically, we have investigated oligomers of polypropylene (PP), poly(acrylic acid) protonated (PAAH) and deprotonated (PAA), and chitosan protonated (CTH) and deprotonated (CT). It has been found that all oligomers show a certain degree of selectivity concerning the interaction with the tested pesticides.	1	pesticide
30992592	Pyrethroid toxicity in a Vietnamese pot-bellied pig.	A 7-month-old spayed female Vietnamese pot-bellied pig (VPBP) was presented for diffuse muscle fasciculations and seizure-like activity that had started 4 hours before presentation. The pig was stuporous and displayed diffuse involuntary gross motor movement and muscle fasciculations, as well as hypertonicity of all 4 limbs. Hematologic analysis revealed hemoconcentration, severe hyperlactatemia, moderate metabolic acidosis, increased creatine kinase and gamma-glutamyltransferase. The pig failed to respond to diazepam, propofol, methocarbamol, and supportive care, followed by general anesthesia, and was euthanized. Bifenthrin, a pyrethroid insecticide, was identified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry of stomach contents. Pyrethroid insecticide toxicity in VPBP may result in clinical signs similar to those seen in companion animals.	1	pesticide
30995420	Boscalid Resistance in Blumeriella jaapii: Distribution, Effect on Field Efficacy, and Molecular Characterization.	Cherry leaf spot (CLS), caused by the fungus Blumeriella jaapii, is a major disease of tart cherry (Prunus cerasus L.) trees, leading to early defoliation that results in uneven ripening and poor fruit quality in the current season, reduced fruit set in the following season, and increased potential for winter injury and tree death. Pristine (BASF Corporation, Research Triangle Park, NC), a commonly used fungicide for CLS management in Michigan, is a premix of boscalid, a succinate dehydrogenase inhibitor, and pyraclostrobin, a quinone outside inhibitor. Reduced efficacy of Pristine for CLS control was observed in field trials and commercial orchards and highlights the importance of fungicide resistance monitoring. A total of 1,189 isolates from 31 commercial orchards in Michigan, 111 isolates from nontreated trees (four locations in Michigan and two locations in Ohio), and 133 isolates from a research orchard were collected during 2010, 2011, and 2012 and assayed on boscalid-amended media at concentrations ranging from 0 to 25 μg ml-1. Because of the very slow growth rate of B. jaapii in culture, we determined the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of boscalid as opposed to the effective concentration that inhibits mycelial growth to 50% of the control. Isolates from nontreated trees had MIC values ranging from 0.1 to 0.5 μg ml-1; the MIC of isolates from commercial orchards ranged from 0.1 to >25 μg ml-1, and isolates from the research orchard ranged from 2.5 to >25 μg ml-1. Isolates with MIC values ≥25 μg ml-1 were considered boscalid resistant and comprised 0% of the nontreated isolates, 30.4% of the commercial isolates, and 42.1% of the research orchard isolates. Sequencing of the sdhB gene of resistant isolates led to the detection of the amino acid mutation H260R, which is known to confer boscalid resistance in other phytopathogenic fungi. Our results indicate that the occurrence of the H260R mutation in Michigan populations of B. jaapii is correlated with the reduction in sensitivity to boscalid observed in commercial orchards.	1	pesticide
74508	Epidemic malathion poisoning in Pakistan malaria workers.	In 1976, epidemic organophosphate insecticide poisoning due to malathion occurred among 7500 field workers in the Pakistan malaria control programme. In July, the peak month of the epidemic, it is estimated that there were about 2800 cases. In field studies low red-cell cholinesterase activities were associated with the signs and symptoms of organophosphate insecticide intoxication. Toxicity was seen with 3 different formulations of the insecticide and was greatest with the products containing increased amounts of isomalathion, a toxic malathion degradation product. Poor work practices, which had developed when D.D.T. was the primary insecticide for malaria control, resulted in excessive skin contact with and percutaneous absorption of the pesticide. Airborne malathion concentrations were very low. Implementation of good work practices and proscription of use of the 2 pesticide formulations most contaminated with isomalathion halted the epidemic in September. An extensive training programme and surveillance system for pesticide toxicity preceded 1977 spraying operations.	1	pesticide
75747	Mass spectrometric analyses and characterization of Kepone in environmental and human samples.	A specific portion of our environment has been contaminated with Kepone, or chlordecone. Additionally, some specific human exposures to high concentrations of Kepone have been confirmed. Gas chromatography mass spectrometry involving chemical ionization and high resolution mass spectrometry were used to detect, identify and confirm the presence of Kepone, Kepone photoproducts and a reduction product of Kepone in environmental and human samples. Field desorption, field ionization and electron impact mass spectrometric methods, as well as infrared and nuclear magnetic resonance techniques were used to characterize and identify Kepone hydrate and hemiketal in benzene and methanol solutions, respectively.	1	pesticide
79156	Chlordecone intoxication in man. II. Ultrastructure of peripheral nerves and skeletal muscle.	"Tremors, mental changes, opsoclonus, muscle weakness, gait ataxia, incoordination, and slurred speech developed in several employees in a Virginia chemical plant during the summer of 1974. Epidemiologic and clinical studies suggested that the chlorinated insecticide chlordecone (Kepone) was responsible. Severity of symptoms seemed directly related to dose and duration of exposure. Five sural nerve and six muscle biopsy specimens were examined by light microscopy and electronmicroscopy. The sural nerves were also evaluated by computerized morphometry, which showed considerable decrease in the number of unmyelinated fibers and lesser abnormalities of myelinated fibers. Compared with the nerves of the control subjects, those of patients may have had an increase in Reich and Elzholz bodies, and a modest increase in endoneurial collagen. There were occasional ""collagen pockets,"" stacks of Schwann cell cytoplasmic membranes, redundant Schwann cell cytoplasmic folds, and fewer unmyelinated axons. The skeletal muscles contained increased amounts of lipofuscin and lipidlike droplets in subsarcolemmal areas and within intermyofibrillary spaces; the significance of this is unknown. Fiber size variability, type I predominance, and type grouping were present in three cases. All results strongly suggest that chlordecone is a neurotoxic agent predominantly affecting Schwann cells and unmyelinated fibers of peripheral nerves."	1	pesticide
105821	[Effect of blockade or stimulation of the reticuloendothelial system on the blood clearance kinetics of the anticholinesterase insecticide carbaryl in the rat].	The blood clearances of 14C-carbaryl and colloïdal carbon were studied in Rats with reticuloendothelial system (RES) inhibited or activated, and in control Rats. A correlation was established between the blood clearance kinetics of carbon particles and carbaryl; such data support the concept of the contribution of the RES in the disappearance of carbaryl from the circulation.	1	pesticide
114967	Polychlorinated biphenyls and other organic chemical residues in fish from major watersheds of the United States, 1976.	Composite samples of fish were collected from major United States watersheds in 1976 and analyzed for PCBs and related organic chemicals. PCBs were found in 93 percent of the fish samples; 53 percent of the samples contained more than 5 ppm PCBs, whole fish basis, which is the current tolerance level set by the Food and Drug Administration, U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare. Only 14 percent of the samples contained less than the proposed action level of 2 ppm PCBs. PCB concentrations ranged from less than 0.3 ppm to 140 ppm in the composite samples. sigma DDT concentrations ranged from less than 0.05 ppm to 4.53 ppm. Hexachlorobenzene was identified in 19 percent of the samples, and chlordane components were identified in 36 percent of the samples. Chemicals identified by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry but not quantified include chlorinated benzenes, styrenes, anisoles, phenols, anilines, propanes, and butadienes, as well as mixtures of petroleum hydrocarbons.	1	pesticide
136041	3,4,3',4'-Tetrachloro azoxybenzene and azobenzene: potent inducers of aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase.	Two unwanted contaminants, 3,4,3',4'-tetrachloroazoxybenzene (TCAOB) and 3,4,3',4'-tetrachloroazobenzene (TCAB), formed in the commercial synthesis of 3,4-dichloroaniline or of herbicides made from 3,4-dichloroaniline, were responsible for three outbreaks of acne among chemical workers. TCAOB and TCAB are approximately isosteric to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin and 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzofuran, two well-known contaminants that cause acne. All four of these agents are potent inducers of hepatic aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activity and compete for stereospecific binding sites in the hepatic cytosol, which are thought to be the receptor sites for the induction of this enzyme. Among the chlorinated azoxy and azobenzenes, the potency of a congener to induce aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activity correlates with its binding affinity for the hepatic cytosol specific binding sites and its capacity to induce acne; this relation between structure and activity parallels that observed for the chlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans.	1	pesticide
224645	Effect of toxogonin and P2S on the toxicity of carbamates and organophosphorus compounds.	Toxogonin (80 mg/kg intraperitoneally) given 15 min. prior to the administration of organophosphorus insecticides dimethoate, malathion, parathion and azinphos-methyl, organophosphorus warfare agents soman and tabun, or carbamates physostigmine, pyridostigmine and aldicarb, reduced the toxicity in mice of these agents by increasing their LD50 dose 1.5-3 fold. The toxicity of the carbamate insecticide carbaryl, however, was significantly increased by toxogonin. Similar results were obtained for P2S (150 mg/kg intraperitoneally) with respect to the toxicity of dimethoate, soman and pyridostigmine, whereas no effect could be detected on the toxicity of tabun. Only a slight reduction in the toxicity of physostigmine was observed. The acetylcholinesterase activity in erythrocytes, cerebrum and diaphragm of surviving mice 20 hours after organophosphate intoxication was similar both in toxogonin and P2S treated animals and untreated animals.	1	pesticide
276313	Personnel safety and foliage residue in an orchard spray program using azinphosmethyl and captan.	Residue levels of azinphosmethyl and captan were determined from blotter paper patches attached to the clothing of personnel participating in an orchard spray program. Average exposure of 1.74 mg/man/hr for azinphosmethyl and 1.94 mg/man/hr for captan were extrapolated from mean residue values obtained from analyzing the patches. Azinphosmethyl residue found on apple and peach foliage had been reached by 69% by the tenth day post-application, while captan residue had been reduced 50% for the same period. There was no evidence of a buildup of either azinphosmethyl or captan on treated foliage as the season progressed.	1	pesticide
406567	[Radiometric determination of 11 carbamate pesticides in the nanogram and subnanongram ranges by means of cholinesterase inhibition].	This method for determining carbamates is based on the inhibiting action of these substances on acetylcholinesterase activity. The use of radioactively labelled acetylcholine as a substrate, the ensuing extractive separation of the radioactive acetic acid (formed by hydrolysis) and its radiometric determination permit to detect very small amounts of carbamates. The limit of detection for aldicarb, baygon, benomyl, bux, carbaryl, CIPC, matacil, phenmedipham and promecarb lies in the picogram range; that for barban and methomyl, in the nanogram range. The lower, linear parts of the curves for the different carbamates fall within the range 0.001-10 ng. The sensitivity (expressed as delta% inhibition/delta lg ng carbamate) ranges from 1.0 to 9.7.	1	pesticide
407850	Residues of PCB's and DDT in the western Lake Superior ecosystem.	Fish from western Lake Superior (1972-73) contained DDT and PCB residues at concentrations greater than o.1 ppm. The most predominant PCB's were those containing 3 to 6 chlorine atoms per molecule, and GLC data indicated that the mixtures were most like the commercial product Aroclor 1254(2). Other chlorinated contiminants identified by GC/MS analyses and occurring at concentrations less than 0.1 ppm were hexachlorobenzene (C6Cl6), chlordane, nonaclor, and dieldrin. Lindane, which has been previously reported in Lake Superior, was below the detection limit of approximately 0.01 ppm. The relationship between the size of lake trout and the concentration of total DDT in the fish was compared to measurements reported in previous studies. The comparison suggests that DDT residues have declined since 1968. The concentration of PCBs was estimated to be 0.8 ng/L in Lake Superior water and 0.1 ppm in large zooplankton. The apparent bioconcentration factor for PCBs in Lake Superior fish ranged from 10(5) to 10(6). The concentration of total DDT and PCBs in the larger Lake Superior fish exceeded the 5 ppm tolerance level established by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for these chemicals in fish tbe used for human consumption.	1	pesticide
410374	Degradation of carbaryl by soil microorganisms.	Four days after carbaryl-naphthyl-1-14C was mixed with soil from a field treated 6 months previously with 4 lb/A of the same insecticide, only 28% of the radiocarbon remained. Approximately 90% remained in soils with no history of pesticide applications. However, dissipation of the carbaryl-14C residues from the latter soils continued at a rather steady rate over a 120-day test period, whereas there was little dissipation after 4 days from the former. Consequently, the total 14C-residue levels were about the same, 15 to 20% of applied, when the last samples were taken. Carbaryl, per se, was the only apolar 14C-residue recovered from the soil and only small quantities, less than 2% of the amount applied, of extractable polar metabolites were encountered. Almost all of the terminal residues were unextractable from the soil with mixtures of acetone and water. Much of the loss of 14C-residues from the soil was attributed to the liberation of 14C-carbon dioxide as a result of microbial degradation of the naphthalene ring. Several fungal and bacterial isolates degraded carbaryl in the same manner as observed with soil incubations, but the rates of degradation were much slower.	1	pesticide
494856	Effect of some medicaments on the oxygen uptake of the spores of some soil fungi.	Nystatin, riboflavin, ascorbic acid, captan, indoleacetic acid, and colchicin were tested in two concentrations for their effect on the oxygen uptake of the spores of Mucor racemosus, Cladosporium tenuissimum, Cochliobolus spicifer, and Macrophomina phaseoli. Nystatin and captan inhibited the oxygen uptake of the spores of all fungi used, and this inhibitory effect increases with increasing concentration. On the other hand, riboflavin, ascorbic acid, indoleacetic acid, and colchicin were found to have a stimulating effect. Increasing the concentration of these medicaments to the double concentration causes a decrease in the oxygen uptake, except in the case of ascorbic acid where the reverse occurs.	1	pesticide
523385	Distribution and depletion of radioactivity in hens treated dermally with 14C-labeled permethrin.	The 25/75 cis-trans mixture of permethrin (BW21Z), one of the new broad-spectrum pyrethroid insecticides, was labeled with 14C in the alcohol methylene carbon moiety and mist sprayed at two rates (3.77 or 11.94 mg/hen) on 28 hens. Peak permethrin equivalents in both treatment groups were found in the skins, .414 and l.69 ppm, respectively. Total permethrin equivalents peaked 3 days after treatment, but permethrin equivalents in eggs peaked 5 days after treatment.	1	pesticide
536444	Evaluation of Amberlite XAD-2 as the extractant for carbamate insecticides from natural water.	A rapid and sensitive analytical technique to quantify carbamate insecticides at nanogram levels is reported using resin column and sorption, and desorption followed by N-P gas-liquid chromatography (GLC) analysis. The carbamates were extracted from natural water by percolation through a column of Amberlite XAD-2, followed by elution with ethyl acetate. The carbamate residues were directly analyzed by GLC with a Tracor Model 702 N-P detector. The recoveries for several carbamates including aminocarb, mexacarbate, carbaryl, propoxur, carbofuran, pirimicarb and methiocarb were from 86 to 108% at 1.0 and 0.01 ppm levels. Only 41 to 58% was recovered for methomyl. The extraction efficiency of Amberlite XAD-2 was pH-dependent as indicated in the extraction of aminocarb. More than 90% of the added aminocarb was recovered from phosphate buffer by the described method at pH 5.0 to 7.5 at 5.0 and 0.5 ppm levels.	1	pesticide
563442	Effect of general anesthetics on handling- and decapitation-induced increases in sympathoadrenal discharge.	The effect of five anesthetics--cyclopropane, pentobarbital, urethane, chloralose or ketamine hydrochloride--on handling- or decapitation-induced increases in adrenergic tone were studied in the intact rat. The anesthetic agents tested prevented or markedly reduced stress-induced increases in levels of plasma total catecholamines and norepinephrine. Similar changes in norepinephrine were seen in corticosterone- treated adrenalectomized rats in which this catecholamine seemed to be the only one present in plasma. During anesthesia with cyclopropane, blood pressure fell; there was no additional decrease in total plasma catecholamines when the concentration of the inhaled anesthetic agent was increased. With increased length of cyclopropane anesthesia, however, total catecholamine and norepinephrine concentrations increased. Thus, the different effects of anesthetics on the cardiovascular system cannot be solely explained by their effects on stress-induced increases in sympathetic neuronal activity as reflected by circulating catecholamine levels.	1	pesticide
641306	Determination of atrazine in runoff water by high performance liquid chromatography.	A procedure is described for the determination of atrazine in runoff water from agricultural areas. Extraction and preconcentration are accomplished with a column of macroreticular resin. Separation and quantification are performed with high performance liquid chromatography with a microparticle reverse phase column. No interference is observed from either organics already present in the runoff water or from some 34 selected organic compounds. Excellent linearity is obtained for concentrations of atrazine from 0--120 PPB. Relative standard deviations of the overall procedure are 1--5%.	1	pesticide
749224	Toxicological studies of insecticides on Cullex quinquefasciatus Say and Aedes aegypti (L.).	Toxicity tests carried out on the larvae of A. aegypti and C. quinquefasciatus showed the former to be more tolerant of all insecticides tested, the order of toxicity being temephos greater than DDT greater than DDVP greater than malathion greater than lindane greater than carbaryl; also the second instar larvae of A. aegypti were more susceptible than fourth instar larvae. Enzyme kinetic studies on the total non-specific esterases and CarEs of adults and larvae of both species showed the Km values for total esterases of adult A. aegypti to be 0.333 mM vs 0.233 mM for C. quinquefasciatus; for adult CarEs it was 0.250 mM vs 0.220 mM. For total larval esterases of A. aegypti it was 0.112 mM vs 0.175 mM for C. quinquefasciatus: and for larval CarES it was 0.159 mM vs 0.213 mM respectively. Although some correlation between in vivo toxicity (LD50 values) and in vitro esterase inhibition (I50 values) between species could be discerned, overall correlation could not be established.	1	pesticide
758444	Direct spectorphotometric assay of quaternary ammonium compounds using bromthymol blue.	Benzalkonium chloride, benzethonium chloride, and chlorhexidine gluconate were assayed quantitatively by a direct spectrophotometric method with bromthymol blue buffered at pH 7.5. The method shows good results at concentrations of 0--300 microgram/ml and in the presence of epinephrine bitartrate, phenylephrine hydrochloride, pilocarpine hydrochloride, and polyvinyl alcohol.	1	pesticide
785249	Mutagenic actions of chlorocholine chloride.	Chlorocholine chloride, at concentrations of 0.2 to 0.5 M (3.2 to 7.9%) between pH 5 and 8, showed no significant mutagenic effect whereas at the same concentrations at pH 9 it caused mutations, in a valine-sensitive strain of E. coli K12. Treatment of E. coli B with chlorocholine chloride at 0.5 M and pH 9 resulted in auxotrophic and regulatory deficient (valine-sensitive) mutants. The mutagenic effects of chlorocholine chloride were compared with the effects caused by the food additive NaHSO3.	1	pesticide
806573	Carbaryl insecticide: extraction from dust and powder formulations.	Some 10% and lower guarantee carbaryl dusts cannot be quantitatively extracted by shaking with chloroform as specified in the official first action infrared method for carbaryl formulations, 6.206-6.208. A repeatability extraction study has been made, using a different extraction technique with both chloroform and 10% methanol in chloroform. The results indicate that the new extraction technique and the mixed solvent are suitable for all solid carbaryl formulations. It is recommended that a collaborative study be conducted on the new solvent system and extraction technique.	1	pesticide
888887	Benzalkonium chloride toxicity to the human cornea.	A 36-year-old woman fitted with a soft contact lens after an uneventful extracapsular cataract extraction was wearing her aphakic lens successfully until she switched her lens-soaking solution to an isotonic solution of boric acid, potassium chloride, and sodium carbonate preserved with benzalkonium chloride and edetic acid. After three days her eye became inflamed and vision decreased. No endothelial damage was apparent and the anterior chamber showed 2+ cell and flare reaction. Three weeks after removal of the lens and fitting with an aphakic lens visual acuity was 6/9 (20/30). Study of the preservative by a semiquantitative dilution method together with the clinical evidence in this case proved the cytotoxic effect of benzolkonium chloride when used to sterilize soft contact lenses.	1	pesticide
970983	The deleterious effects of fungicides and herbicides on Xenopus laevis embryos.	"Groups of 30 Xenopus laevis embryos, at ""tail-bud"" stage (Nieukoop-Faber stages 22-24) were exposed to 0.1-2 ppm concentrations of various pesticides for 1 to 10 days. The pesticides used were chloranil and dichlone (both are fungicidal and herbicidal); diquat (herbicide); and nabam (fungicide). The parameters examined were mortality, gross morphology, histology, and behavior. Chloranil (1.25 to 1.75 ppm) treated embryos showed abnormalities of the otolith, optic cup, and general pigmentation. Their movement was sporadically convulsive and they were unable to maintain proper balance. Dichlone (0.1 to 0.15 ppm) disrupted the development of the cephalic end of the embryo. Many of these embryos developed a slightly retarded trunk and tail only. These headless embryos lived for a time and were relatively lethargic. Diquat (0.75 to 2.0 ppm) administration reduced body size and pigmentation, and altered body shape. When embryos were treated with both 1.0 ppm of diquat and 2.0 ppm of nabam the integrity of myomeres and myocommata of the musculature was disrupted. The histological bases of these morphological and behavioral changes are discussed."	1	pesticide
1158824	Gas-liquid chromatographic determination of technical chlordane residues in food crops: interpretation of analytical data.	An interlaboratory investigation of technical chlordane residues in food crops was carried out to determine the most practical and consistent method of reporting results. Using a technical chlordane reference standard, 8 gas chromatographic stationary phases were studied for their resolution capabilities. The best separations were obtained with SE-30 and its OV-1 equivalent. Using these columns and electron capture detection, potatoes and carrots from supervised field experiments were analyzed in duplicate and quantitated by using 4 methods of calculation. The data were statistically treated to determine the precision and bias for each method. Also, 1 sample was analyzed in duplicate on 2 different occasions by 6 laboratories to substantiate the initial conclusions. Based on the criterion of high precision it is suggested that a comparison of total area under the chromatogram of the sample with total area of standard technical chlordane be the method of quantitation. Only peaks which are common to both standard and sample have any significance in this type of calculation.	1	pesticide
1287975	The biological activity of glyphosate to plants and animals: a literature review.	Glyphosate is a widely-used broad-spectrum herbicide with little to no hazard to man or the environment. Glyphosate is highly effective against 90 kinds of emerged grasses, brush and broad-leaf weeds. There is no residual soil activity, it does not leach into non-target areas, and it is non-volatile. It is practically nontoxic to mammals, birds and fish, showing no bioaccumulation in the food chain; it is biodegraded into natural products. When used correctly, glyphosate poses no threat to the environment and its inhabitants.	1	pesticide
1306993	[Laboratory study on the immediate and persistent insecticide activity of the pyrethroid lambda-cyhalothrin on nymphs of IV instar Triatoma infestans].	Lambda-cyhalothrin (LCT) is a new broad-spectrum synthetic pyrethroid insecticide with efficient immediate and persistent activity against a great variety of arthropods harmful both to human and animal health and to vegetal production. In many countries this insecticide has been successfully used in the control of infectious diseases vectors, such as mosquitoes, triatomine bugs (transmitters of Trypanosoma cruzi, agent of Chagas' disease) and other arthropods. In order to test the immediate and persistent activity of LCT under laboratory conditions (27 degrees C and 75-80% humidity) on laboratory reared Triatoma infestans--the most resistant instar of this insect to the commonest insecticides used--a series of six experiments was performed in 1-year period. Previous to experiments, the interior surface (400 cm2) of 36 specially manufactured cardboard boxes was uniformly sprayed with 2 ml of the following substrates: 12 with 0.6% LCT suspension, 12 with 1.0% LCT suspension and 12 with water (controls). Twenty four hours, 30 - 90 - 150 - 270 and 360 days later, in two pairs of each six boxes, lots of 10 T. infestans IV nymphs were deposited inside of them. In each of the six experiments, daily observations of the conditions of the insects (unaffected, affected in terms of various grades of progressive uncoordination, or dead) after exposure to the insecticide were performed to end with the register of these conditions 96 hours later. Moreover, after 7 and 10 days of exposure in the immediate and persistent effect of LCT respectively a 100% of mortality was verified.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)	1	pesticide
1315139	Mechanisms of aldehyde-induced bronchial reactivity: role of airway epithelium.	To investigate the relative irritant potencies of inhaled aldehydes, guinea pigs were exposed to formaldehyde or acrolein and specific total pulmonary resistance and bronchial reactivity to intravenous acetylcholine were assessed. The mechanisms associated with these responses were investigated by analyzing morphologic and biochemical changes in airway epithelial cells after in vivo and in vitro exposures. Immediately after exposure to formaldehyde or acrolein, specific resistance increased transiently and returned to control values within 30 to 60 minutes. Bronchial hyperreactivity, assessed by the acetylcholine dose necessary to double resistance, increased and became maximal two to six hours after exposure to at least 9 parts per million2 (ppm) formaldehyde or at least 1 ppm acrolein for two hours. The effect of exposure to 3 ppm formaldehyde for two hours was less than the effect of exposure to 1 ppm formaldehyde for eight hours; thus, extended exposures produced a disproportionate heightening of bronchial reactivity. Bronchial hyperreactivity often persisted for longer than 24 hours. Increases in three bronchoconstrictive eicosanoids, prostaglandin F2 alpha, thromboxane B2, and leukotriene C4, occurred immediately after exposure, whereas an influx of neutrophils into lavage fluid occurred 24 hours later. Histological examination of the tracheal epithelium and lamina propria also demonstrated a lack of inflammatory cell infiltration. Treatment with leukotriene synthesis inhibitors and receptor antagonists inhibited acrolein-induced hyperreactivity, supporting a causal role for these compounds in this response. Acrolein also stimulated eicosanoid release from bovine epithelial cells in culture. However, the profile of metabolites formed differed from that found in lavage fluid after in vivo exposure. Similarly, human airway epithelial cells did not produce cysteinyl leukotriene or thromboxane B2. However, cysteinyl leukotrienes were mitogenic for human airway epithelial cells in a concentration-dependent manner and exhibited a structure-activity relationship; leukotriene C4 was more potent than its sequential metabolites D4 and E4. The potency of leukotriene C4 was striking, stimulating colony-forming efficiency in concentrations as low as 0.01 pM. Together, these findings suggest that environmentally relevant concentrations of aldehydes can induce bronchial hyperreactivity in guinea pigs through a mechanism involving injury to cells present in the airways during exposure (rather than from subsequently recruited migratory cells) and that this response is dependent on leukotriene biosynthesis.	1	pesticide
1354459	Aldrin and dieldrin residues in human fat, milk and blood serum collected from Delhi.	1. Aldrin and dieldrin residues were monitored in the fat, breast milk and blood serum from female residents of Delhi. 2. The average aldrin and dieldrin contents were 0.048 and 0.099 ppb in adipose tissue, 0.003 and 0.060 ppb in breast milk and 0.004 and 0.002 ppb in blood serum, respectively. 3. The older donors contained higher levels of aldrin and dieldrin in their adipose tissue. 4. Primagravidae contained more of these chemicals in their breast milk. 5. A positive correlation was observed between the aldrin concentration in adipose tissue and breast milk, and that in adipose tissue and blood serum. Similarly, a significant correlation was found between dieldrin in adipose tissue and blood serum. 6. The levels of aldrin and dieldrin were low in samples from residents of Delhi when compared to those in developed countries.	1	pesticide
1359483	Aluminum inhibits glutamate release from transverse rat hippocampal slices: role of G proteins, Ca channels and protein kinase C.	Aluminum (Al) has been shown to produce deficits in learning and memory. The present experiments tested the hypothesis that Al-induced inhibition of learning may be due to its effect on glutamate release secondary to changes in calcium channel function and/or intracellular events triggering glutamate release. Calcium-dependent potassium (K)-evoked [14C]-glutamate release from 400 microns transverse rat hippocampal slices was inhibited by Al in a concentration dependent manner (IC50 = 40 microM). Aluminum (30, 100 microM) noncompetitively inhibited Bay K 8644-evoked glutamate release. 4-Aminopyridine (30, 1000 microM) noncompetitively attenuated the Al inhibition of glutamate release, suggesting an Al-induced alteration of Ca channel function. Activation of the Gi protein by R(-)phenylisopropyladenosine (PIA; 1 microM) reduced K-evoked glutamate release 69%, whereas 300 microM Al produced an 84% reduction. These effects were prevented by the Gi protein inhibitor N-ethylmaleimide (NEM; 100 microM), suggesting an effect of Al on the Gi protein to inhibit glutamate release. Phorbol myristate acetate (0.16 microM)-induced glutamate release was inhibited by 300 microM Al and 80 microM polymyxin B, suggesting an Al modulation of protein kinase C (PKC)-evoked glutamate release. These results demonstrate an Al inhibition of glutamate release that may be mediated by multiple, but interconnected mechanisms (e.g., via interactions with Ca systems), providing multiple targets for an Al-induced alteration of neuronal function.	1	pesticide
1369090	Metabolic response to treatment with cold, paraquat, or 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole in leaves of winter wheat.	We treated leaves of winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) with cold, paraquat, or 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole and compared the responses. We assayed the activities of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, catalase, dehydroascorbate reductase and ascorbate free radical reductase and levels of hydrogen peroxide, glucose-6-phosphate, fructose-6-phosphate, ascorbate, dehydroascorbate, reduced and oxidized glutathione. With any of the three treatments, contents of cellular peroxides and hexose phosphates were raised. The content of ascorbate was lowered markedly by paraquat treatment, which produces active oxygen species, whereas such a decrease did not occur in other two treatments. When the plants were treated with 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole, which is a specific inhibitor of catalase, the content of oxidized glutathione increased severalfold. The glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity increased with all three treatments, but it decreased after glyphosate treatment, which does not stimulate the formation of peroxides. The activities of catalase and dehydroascorbate reductase were increased by the treatment of cold and paraquat, while 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole did not affect the dehydroascorbate reductase activity. The activity of ascorbate free radical reductase increased after treatment by paraquat only.	1	pesticide
1375002	Postmarketing surveillance study of permethrin creme rinse.	BACKGROUND: An observational, epidemiological study was undertaken to evaluate the safety of permethrin 1% creme rinse (Nix) for treatment of head lice infestations. METHODS: Thirty-seven local public health departments enrolled a total of 38,160 patients for 47,578 treatments with permethrin or other pediculicides from September 1, 1986, through January 31, 1988. Follow-up safety information was collected between 7 and 14 days following treatment via return visit or telephone contact. RESULTS: One hundred three adverse events were reported among 41,955 evaluable treatments. The rates of reported adverse events were 2.2 per 1000 treatments among permethrin treatments, 3.4 per 1000 treatments among lindane treatments, and 1.5 per 1000 treatments among other over-the-counter treatments. No serious, unexpected adverse events were detected in the 18,950 patients treated with permethrin. CONCLUSIONS: This study confirmed the safety profile of permethrin in conditions of general use, as seen in clinical trials. Postmarketing safety monitoring in public health departments of drugs used to treat public health conditions was shown to be feasible.	1	pesticide
1397399	Comparison of HPTLC and HPLC procedures for the determination of certain xenobiotic residues in apples and pears.	HPTLC was used to check for residues of benomyl, carbendazim, ethoxyquin and thiabendazole in apples and pears. The method used showed good precision with a percentage coefficient of variation of less than 5%; recoveries were always greater than 90%. The limits of determination using HPTLC were always at least four times lower than Italian statutory limits. Selectivity with respect to other matrix components was excellent for all fruit varieties tested. Comparison with HPLC confirmed the validity of the results.	1	pesticide
1401476	Genetic consequences of linkage between malathion resistance and an autosomal male-determining factor in house fly (Diptera: Muscidae).	The pattern of inheritance of genes conferring resistance to malathion and genetic consequences of linkage between an autosomal male-determining factor and resistance genes on the second chromosome were investigated in a strain of house fly, Musca domestica L., selected for malathion resistance. The second and fifth chromosomes contribute significantly to malathion resistance. The presence of a male-determining factor linked with the resistance genes on the second chromosome resulted in a strong sexual dimorphism in malathion resistance. We also observed that the male-determining factor changed its linkage relationship from the third linkage group to the second linkage group during the selection experiments.	1	pesticide
1416168	The inhibitory effect of halothane on mesenteric venoconstriction and related reflex responses during acute graded hypoxia in rabbits.	Systemic hypoxia is a common abnormality encountered frequently in the clinical setting that produces compensatory cardiopulmonary changes affecting heart rate, blood pressure, peripheral vascular resistance, and respiratory drive. These changes are known to be inhibited or reversed by inhaled anesthetics. More recently, chemoreflex-mediated constriction of capacitance veins has been identified as a mechanism that contributes significantly to the hemodynamic adjustments during hypoxia. However, the effects of anesthetics on this response have not been clarified. The current study was designed to quantify sympathetically mediated mesenteric venoconstriction as well as heart rate and blood pressure responses to acute graded hypoxia; to identify the inhibitory effects of inhaled halothane on these responses; and to estimate the contribution of the peripheral chemoreceptors in mediating these changes. Changes in mesenteric vein diameter were measured in alpha-chloralose anesthetized rabbits in situ with simultaneous changes in heart rate and blood pressure during 40-s periods of 10%, 5%, 2.5%, and 0% inspired O2 administered sequentially before, during, and after 1% or 1.25% inhaled halothane. Sympathetic efferent nerve activity also was measured, and, in a separate group of animals, measurements were preceded by carotid chemoreceptor denervation. Hypoxia-mediated venoconstriction, bradycardia, and hypertension were attenuated almost equally by both 1% and 1.25% inhaled halothane (the higher dose produced only slightly greater inhibition). These responses were inhibited significantly in chemoreceptor-denervated animals, and the subsequent 1% inhaled halothane added only minimal additional attenuation. Increases in chemoreflex-mediated sympathetic efferent nerve activity also were reduced significantly by (1.25%) inhaled halothane. These results indicate that halothane impairs capacitance vein responses and other hemodynamic adjustments during hypoxia. Inhibition of these compensatory changes appears to be mediated, at least in part, via attenuation of peripheral chemoreflex responses and suppression of the resultant reflex increases in sympathetic efferent nerve activity.	1	pesticide
1456780	Anodontites trapesialis: a biological monitor of organochlorine pesticides.	The mussel Anodontites trapesialis (Lam, 1819) was used as an indicator of organochlorine pollutants in the Pardo River, located in the municipality of Ribeirão Preto (21 degrees 07'S and 47 degrees 45'W), State of São Paulo, Brazil. Biological monitoring was performed for one year at the site of a sugar cane grove on the left bank of the river. Forty-three animals were placed in two aluminum enclosures on the river bottom at this site and 4 animals of each enclosure were sacrificed for pesticide analysis at 3-month intervals, each collection corresponding to one season of the year. The animals were found to have been exposed to DDT, lindane, heptachlor, aldrin and dieldrin. Endrin was not detected in any of the analyses.	1	pesticide
1464147	Exposure and health assessment during application of lambda-cyhalothrin for malaria vector control in Pakistan.	Icon 10 WP insecticide, a wettable powder formulation containing 10% lambda-cyhalothrin, was evaluated for possible adverse effects on the health of spraymen and villagers during treatment of dwellings for malaria vector control. Skin sensory effects and occasional coughing and sneezing in confined spaces were the only symptoms noted by the workers resulting from the handling and spraying of the insecticide. Absorption of lambda-cyhalothrin was estimated by determining its metabolites in urine and serum. The average amount of lambda-cyhalothrin absorbed by the workers per day (54 micrograms) represents less than 0.0001% (< 1 micrograms.kg-1.day-1) of the average daily amount of the substance handled. Only a small proportion of villagers showed detectable levels of lambda-cyhalothrin metabolites in their urine. Absorption of lambda-cyhalothrin from the formulation tested was therefore very low and, apart from the nuisance of skin sensory effects, there should be no risk to the health of workers or to the villagers whose dwellings are treated.	1	pesticide
1509669	The effect of malathion, an organophosphate, on the plasma FSH, 17 beta-estradiol and progesterone concentrations and acetylcholinesterase activity and conception in dairy cattle.	The effect of malathion on jugular plasma concentrations of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), estradiol (E2), progesterone (P4) and acetylcholinesterase (AchE) on conception in dairy cattle during a cloprostenol (prostaglandin F2 alpha analogue, PG)-induced estrus was studied. Malathion (1 mg/kg, intraruminally) given at the onset of estrus (48 h after PG) did not alter the plasma FSH or E2 concentrations but significantly (P less than 0.05) inhibited plasma P4 concentration. The mean P4 concentration in the malathion-treated group on days 8 and 12 were 0.8 +/- 0.4 and 1.0 +/- 0.5 ng/ml, as compared to 2.6 +/- 0.0 and 2.4 +/- 0.3 ng/ml in the control group. There was a nonsignificant (P greater than 0.05) inhibition of plasma AchE activity in malathion-treated cattle. Conception was 16.6% in malathion-treated cows and 50% in controls. Inhibition of progesterone secretion and poor conception occurred after the single intraruminal dose of malathion at the onset of estrus.	1	pesticide
1515117	A piezoelectric immunobiosensor for atrazine in drinking water.	A piezoelectric crystal immunobiosensor has been developed for the assay of atrazine herbicides in drinking water. Determinations from 0.03-100 micrograms l-1 (parts per billion) of atrazine can be made with a relative SD of about +/- 8%. Atrazine antibodies (polyclonal from sheep) are layered onto the gold electrode of 10 MHz piezoelectric crystals, which are precoated with protein A. The sensor is reversible, being reusable for about eight or nine assays.	1	pesticide
1539709	Is there a central nervous system component to acute baroreflex resetting in rats?	"This study was designed to evaluate a possible central nervous system (CNS) component to acute baroreflex resetting. In nine arterial baroreceptor-denervated, chloralose-urethan-anesthetized rats, a control (C) aortic nerve stimulation curve (3-5 V, 1 ms, 0-64 Hz) was obtained. Next, a constant ""baroreceptor"" input was delivered to the CNS (left aortic nerve stimulation, 10 min, 10.2 +/- 1.5 Hz). Within the first 13 s of aortic nerve stimulation, maximum inhibition of lumbar sympathetic nerve activity (LSNA) was 60 +/- 7.8% of baseline and at 1 min it increased to 68 +/- 5.6% of baseline. At the end of the 10-min aortic nerve stimulation, LSNA was not different from the response at 1 min (68 +/- 5.6% = 74 +/- 4.1%). Immediately after the constant stimulation (within 30 s), a test or reset (RS) curve was obtained (0-64 Hz). A recovery (RC) curve was obtained 10-20 min later. The slope of the linear portion of the curve and the stimulation frequency that produced 50% maximum inhibition (ES50) were compared among the three baroreflex curves (C, RS, RC,) and no significant differences were found. Thus, although a CNS component to baroreflex adaptation was evident during the first minute of aortic nerve stimulation, a longer term acute resetting of the baroreflex curve did not occur."	1	pesticide
1568215	Pesticides and other agricultural risk factors for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma among men in Iowa and Minnesota.	Data from an in-person interview study of 622 white men with newly diagnosed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and 1245 population-based controls in Iowa and Minnesota were used to measure the risk associated with farming occupation and specific agricultural exposures. Men who ever farmed were at slightly elevated risk of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (odds ratio = 1.2, 95% confidence interval = 1.0-1.5) that was not linked to specific crops or particular animals. Elevated risks were found, with odds ratio generally 1.5-fold or greater, for personal handling, mixing, or application of several pesticide groups and for individual insecticides, including carbaryl, chlordane, dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane, diazinon, dichlorvos, lindane, malathion, nicotine, and toxaphene. Associations were generally stronger for first use prior to 1965 than more recently, and when protective clothing or equipment was not used. Small risks were associated with the use of the phenoxyacetic acid herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, but the risks did not increase with latency or failure to use protective equipment. Exposure to numerous pesticides poses problems of interpreting risk associated with a particular chemical, and multiple comparisons increase the chances of false-positive findings. In contrast, nondifferential exposure misclassification due to inaccurate recall can bias risk estimates toward the null and mask positive associations. In the face of these methodological and statistical issues, the consistency of several findings, both within this study and with observations of others, suggests an important role for several insecticides in the etiology of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma among farmers.	1	pesticide
1644709	Pesticide concentrations in Arkansas breast milk.	During an episode of pesticide dairy product contamination in Arkansas in 1986, breast milk samples from 942 women were analyzed for concentrations of chlorinated pesticides. The pesticides found most frequently in quantifiable concentrations were p,p'-DDE (100%), oxychlordane (84%), trans-nonachlor (77%), heptachlor epoxide (74%) and beta-HCH, an isomer of lindane (27%). The pesticides present in highest mean concentrations of all samples analyzed (reported as ppm in milk fat) were p,p'-DDE (0.952 ppm), trans-nonachlor (0.062 ppm), oxychlordane (0.051 ppm), heptachlor epoxide (0.045 ppm), p,p'-DDT (0.039 ppm), and beta-HCH (0.032 ppm). These concentrations are lower than previous reports from similar regions of the US. However, continued persistence in human breast milk is of concern due to potential adverse health effects from these chemicals.	1	pesticide
1644881	Comparison of gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric methods for screening of chlorotriazine pesticides in soil.	The performance of a coupled technique resulting from the combination of gas chromatography with a selective mass spectrometric technique (tandem mass spectrometry) (GC-MS-MS) with collisionally activated dissociation (CAD) and multi-reaction monitoring (MRM) was compared with that of GC-low resolution MS (GC-LRMS) at a resolving power of 1000 and GC-high-resolution MS (GC-HRMS) at resolving powers of 5000 and 10,000 for the determination of atrazine, simazine, cyanazine, deethylatrazine and deisopropylatrazine in polluted soil samples. GC-MS-MS daughter ion spectra for the parent ions [M]+. and [M - CH3]+ were generated using collisionally activated dissociation and studied. Also, by optimizing the collision energy for maximum sensitivity a method for screening chlorotriazines by MRM was developed. Analyses of soil sample extracts showed that GC-MS-MS overcomes interferences from other chlorotriazines and interfering compounds that could not be removed by GC-HRMS or GC-LRMS at resolving powers of 10,000 and 1000, respectively. The limits of detection for GC-MS-MS and GC-HRMS at a signal-to-noise ratio of 10 ranged between 1 and 24 pg, with a mean relative standard deviation of 25-30%. Soil samples known to contain chlorotriazines and their degradation products were analysed by GC-MS-MS and the results obtained were compared with those given by GC-HRMS at resolving powers of 5000 and 10,000, with quantification differences of 25-30%.	1	pesticide
1663333	Interaction between amitraz and alpha 2-adrenoceptors inhibits epinephrine-induced canine platelet aggregation.	The effect of amitraz, a formamidine insecticide, on [3H]yohimbine binding and aggregation of canine platelets was studied. The time course study of [3H]yohimbine binding to alpha 2-adrenoceptors on canine platelet membranes showed a maximum binding after 45 min at 37 degrees C using 5.25 nM final concentration of radioligand. When maximum binding was reached, amitraz (10(-4) M) was added to inhibit [3H]yohimbine binding. The dose-dependent inhibition of radioligand binding by amitraz was compared with that of chlordimeform, another formamidine insecticide, and clonidine. The IC50 values for clonidine, amitraz and chlordimeform indicated that amitraz was about 5 times less potent than clonidine and 6 times more potent than chlordimeform. Epinephrine (10(-6) M) promoted both primary and secondary aggregation of canine platelets in the presence of 10(-6) M ADP. Both amitraz (3 x 10(-7)-10(-5) M) and clonidine (3 x 10(-7)-10(-6) M) inhibited epinephrine-induced canine platelet aggregation in a dose-dependent manner. These results suggest that amitraz has a direct interaction with alpha 2-adrenoceptors of canine platelets to inhibit epinephrine-induced aggregation.	1	pesticide
1664850	"Field efficacy of ""Mosbar"" mosquito repellent soap against vectors of bancroftian filariasis and Japanese encephalitis in southern India."	"Deet-permethrin ""Mosbar"" soap was field tested for repellency against mosquitoes by volunteers in urban and rural localities in southern India. Eighty-nine to 100% reduction in man-vector contact was recorded for 8 mosquito species, including Culex quinquefasciatus and recognized vectors of Japanese encephalitis. The soap was highly acceptable to the community."	1	pesticide
1673175	Community control of scabies: a model based on use of permethrin cream.	For 18 years treatment with lindane or crotamiton products has failed to stem the epidemic of scabies among the Kuna Indians in the San Blas islands of the Republic of Panama. Permethrin 5% cream was introduced as the only treatment in a programme to control scabies on an island of 756 inhabitants and involving workers recruited locally. Prevalence fell from 33% to less than 1% after every person was treated. As long as continued surveillance and treatment of newly introduced cases was maintained, prevalence of scabies remained below 1.5% for over 3 years. When supply of medication was interrupted for 3 weeks, prevalence rose to 3.6%. When control was lost after the US invasion of Panama, prevalence rose to 12% within 3 months. Bacterial skin infections decreased dramatically when scabies was controlled. Permethrin is safe and effective even in areas where this disease has become resistant to lindane.	1	pesticide
1673728	The operational costs of spraying residual insecticides: a case-study from Nepal.	Little attention has been paid to the cost implications of different insecticides for malaria control, particularly to the local (non-insecticide) costs. This study in Nepal explored the significance of operational costs in relation to insecticide cost and examined the extent to which operational costs varied for DDT, malathion and Ficam. A detailed analysis was done of costs relating to spraying, transport and safety. The study found that the operational cost differences were relatively small in comparison with the costs of the chemicals themselves and the cost of transporting them to Nepal, though DDT and Ficam had significantly lower operational costs than malathion. Operational costs were paid mainly by the Nepalese government and insecticide and external freight costs by donors.	1	pesticide
1677838	Pesticides induced changes in circulating thyroid hormones in the freshwater catfish Clarias batrachus.	1. Effects of endosulfan, malathion and carbaryl on circulating T4, T3 and T3/T4 ratio in the freshwater catfish, C. batrachus have been studied during reproductively active phases, i.e. vitellogenic and post-vitellogenic phases of its annual reproductive cycle. 2. Endosulfan provoked a significant increase in T4 and a decrease in T3 as well as the T3/T4 ratio. 3. Malathion decreased T3 and T3/T4 ratio without altering the level of T4 in circulation. 4. Carbaryl caused a decline in the level of T4 and an elevation in T3 and T3/T4 ratio.	1	pesticide
1685337	Experimental hut trials of bednets impregnated with synthetic pyrethroid or organophosphate insecticide for mosquito control in The Gambia.	1. Nylon bednets impregnated with different insecticides were evaluated in 1988 against wild adult mosquito populations, mostly Mansonia africana (Theobald) and Anopheles gambiae Giles sensu lato, entering experimental verandah-trap huts in The Gambia. Each bednet had six 10 x 10 cm holes made in the walls to simulate torn conditions and permit female mosquitoes to enter and feed on sleepers. 2. Individual net treatments, determined by gas chromatography of net samples from before and after 12 weeks use of the bednets, were: permethrin 670 +/- 159 and 405 +/- 190 mg/m2 (40% loss), cypermethrin 37 +/- 8 and 16 +/- 9 mg/m2 (57% loss), deltamethrin 10 +/- 7 and 10 +/- 8 mg/m2 (no loss), lambda-cyhalothrin 2.6 +/- 0.9 and 1.6 +/- 0.5 mg/m2 (38% loss), pirimiphos-methyl 4017 +/- 117 and 1160 +/- 319 mg/m2 (71% loss). 3. Washing three times in the traditional manner with local cow-fat soap reduced the initial dosages by about 85% of cypermethrin and lambda-cyhalothrin, 99.8% of pirimiphos-methyl and left no detectable residues of deltamethrin or permethrin. 4. The unwashed permethrin-treated bednet reduced the number of mosquitoes entering a hut by 60% of An.gambiae s.l. and 68% of Mansonia spp. This deterrency was less pronounced with the other insecticides and was lost by washing the bednets. 5. Each insecticide, especially lambda-cyhalothrin and pirimiphosmethyl, caused significant mortality rates of mosquitoes that entered huts with impregnated bednets, and prevented the majority of An. gambiae s.l. and Mansonia females from bloodfeeding. Washing completely removed the efficacy of deltamethrin and permethrin treated bednets, whereas nets treated with cypermethrin, lambda-cyhalothrin or pirimiphos-methyl remained significantly insecticidal after washing. 6. Aerial toxicity from the pirimiphos-methyl treated bednet killed 80% of An.gambiae s.l. confined overnight in the hut at the end of the trial, whereas the pyrethroid-treated bednets gave negligible mortality rates of mosquitoes. 7. Sleepers using the bednets had no medical symptoms significantly associated with any of the treatments. On the contrary, from 216 interviews, 4/10 complaints were associated with the use of untreated nets (P approximately 0.05), perhaps because sleepers were kept awake by mosquitoes and became more aware of any ailments. 8. It is concluded that permethrin tends mainly to deter mosquitoes from house-entry, enhancing personal protection, whereas the other insecticides kill higher proportions of the endophilic mosquitoes, which would give better community protection against malaria transmission.	1	pesticide
1696484	[Simple in vitro test systems for determining the toxicity of environmental chemicals: microcultures of human lymphocytes and monoxenic ciliate cultures].	Two test methods were developed to assess (I) the cytotoxicity, (II) the environmental toxicity of chemicals. Test parameter for (I) is the growth inhibition of human T-lymphocytes stimulated by PHA (test period 6-7 days), for (II) the inhibition of cell multiplication of the ciliate Tetrahymena pyriformis grown monoxenically in a chemically defined medium which contained glucose and citrate as only carbon source (test period 13-14 days). The EC50 values (mol/l) of Pb, Cd, Hg, dichlorvos, atrazine and lindane were for (I): greater than or equal to 10(-2,5), 10(-5,4), 10(-5,6), 10(-5,0), 10(-4,75) and 10(-3,95) respectively, for (II): 10(-6,72), less than or equal to 10(-6,66), 10(-7,84), 10(-3,61), 10(-3,93) and 10(-4,75) respectively. The advantages of the described bioassays are simple handling and high sensitivity.	1	pesticide
1710460	Changes in synaptosomal pH and rates of oxygen radical formation induced by chlordecone.	The resting pH of 7.14 +/- 0.02 within rat cortical synaptosomes is elevated in vitro by the insecticide chlordecone, in a dose-dependent manner. Chlordecone also reduces the rate of oxygen radical formation within synaptosomes. Both of these changes can also be demonstrated following in vivo treatment of rats with chlordecone (75 mg/kg body wt). Although chlordecone increases the permeability of the plasma membrane, the increase in pH observed is unlikely to be caused by this, since in vivo administration of chlordecone does not appreciably alter membrane order as evaluated by both a lipophilic probe, and a probe with an ionic segment. Another xenobiotic agent, methyl mercuric chloride, and a free radical generating system, an ascorbic acid-ferrous sulfate mixture, did not modulate synaptosomal pH, although membrane permeability was increased. Other evidence of the ability of synaptosomes to maintain homeostasis was the failure of mitochondrial inhibitors to significantly reduce pH. The drop in synaptosomal pH effected by amiloride, an inhibitor of Na+/H+ exchange, and the transient rise in pH caused by ammonium chloride further suggested that synaptosomes may be a good model in the study of the regulation of intracellular pH. The elevation of cytosolic pH, and depression of oxygen radical formation by chlordecone, may result from both the attenuation of respiratory metabolism and an impaired capacity of the plasma membrane to maintain ionic gradients.	1	pesticide
1711578	Chronic administration of sublethal doses of carbaryl increases pineal N-acetyltransferase and hydroxyindole-O-methyltransferase activities and serum melatonin levels.	The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of chronic administration of sublethal doses of carbaryl on pineal melatonin synthesis. N-methyl 1-naphthylcarbamate (carbaryl) (8.33 mg/kg B.W. daily) was administered orally to adult male albino rats for 6 successive days. Nocturnal (0100) N-acetyltransferase and hydroxyindole-O-methyltransferase activities were increased (roughly 75% and 60%, respectively) by carbaryl administration; likewise, carbaryl augmented serum melatonin levels at 2300. Pineal tryptophan. 5-hydroxytryptophan, serotonin, and 5-hydroxindole acetic acid levels were unaffected at all three time points. The results indicate that the carbamate pesticide, i.e., carbaryl, modifies pineal melatonin synthesis in vivo.	1	pesticide
1729768	Effect of the fungicide benomyl on xenobiotic metabolism in rats.	The effect of benomyl administered orally (p.o.) and intraperitoneally (i.p.) on the activity of hepatic microsomal mixed-function oxidases (MFOs) was studied in rats. A dose of 100 mg/kg given i.p. reduced the activities of several hepatic drug-metabolizing enzymes 24 h following the treatment. A similar reduction in the activities of the MFOs was also noted 24 h following oral benomyl administration at a dose of 500 mg/kg. Furthermore, in vivo inhibition of drug metabolism by benomyl was demonstrated by increased pentobarbital sleeping-time 24 h after p.o. as well as i.p. dosing. No alterations were found in the serum sorbitol dehydrogenase (SDH) at 24 h after i.p. or oral benomyl indicating a lack of hepatotoxic effect. These results indicate that benomyl shows a route-independent effect on MFOs and is not toxic to the liver.	1	pesticide
1744295	Effect of temperature on the toxicities of ten pyrethroids to German cockroach (Dictyoptera: Blattellidae).	Of 10 pyrethroids tested by topical application of male German cockroaches, Blattella germanica (L.), d-phenothrin was the least toxic at 19, 26, or 31 degrees C. lambda-cyhalothrin was most toxic. Pyrethroids with the alpha-cyano moiety (fluvalinate, fenvalerate, cypermethrin, esfenvalerate, tralomethrin, cyfluthrin, and lambda-cyhalothrin) were more toxic than those without this functional group (d-phenothrin, resmethrin, and permethrin). At LC50, toxicity was negatively related to temperature. Temperature-toxicity responses of five of seven alpha-cyano pyrethroids were parallel, possibly indicating qualitatively identical but quantitatively different levels of detoxification enzymes.	1	pesticide
1754879	Levels of aldrin and dieldrin in environmental samples from Delhi, India.	Aldrin and dieldrin residues in soil, earthworms, water, fish and clams from different sites in Delhi were monitored. Concentrations of aldrin and dieldrin were found to be higher in earthworms than in soil. Concentrations of dieldrin were higher in fish than the ambient water, but the concentration of aldrin in the ambient water was the same as that in fish and clams.	1	pesticide
1785941	Purification and characterization of the N-methylcarbamate hydrolase from Pseudomonas strain CRL-OK.	A unique cytosolic enzyme that hydrolyzes the carbamate linkage of the insecticide carbaryl (1-naphthyl N-methylcarbamate) was purified from extracts of Pseudomonas sp. strain CRL-OK. Substrates of the hydrolase include the N-methylcarbamate pesticides carbofuran and aldicarb but not the phenylcarbamate isopropyl m-chlorocarbanilate, the thiocarbamate S-ethyl N,N-dipropylthiocarbamate, or the dimethylcarbamate o-nitrophenyldimethylcarbamate.	1	pesticide
1786744	Susceptibilities of northern fowl mite, Ornithonyssus sylviarum (Acarina: Macronyssidae), and chicken mite, Dermanyssus gallinae (Acarina: Dermanyssidae), to selected acaricides.	The relative toxicities of ten acaricides to northern fowl mite, Ornithonyssus sylviarum (Canestrini and Fanzago), and the chicken mite, Dermanyssus gallinae (De Geer), were determined simultaneously by holding the mites inside disposable glass Pasteur pipettes previously immersed in acetone solutions of various concentrations (w/v) of technical grade acaricides. The LC90s (parts per million) of the acaricides after 24 h exposure for the northern fowl mite and the chicken mite, respectively, were: bendiocarb (13.1, 0.18), tetrachlorvinphos (14.5, 4.07), carbaryl (15.0, 0.83), pirimiphos methyl (18.3, 2.03), permethrin (23.1, 8.46), lambda cyhalothrin (80.7, 11.4), dichlorvos (252.8, 3.75), malathion (238.4, 6.59), amitraz (6741, 9430) and fenvalerate (greater than 10,000, 60.2). After 48 h exposure there were only slight increases in mortalities of both species except for increased mortalities for the northern fowl mite with lambda cyhalothrin, amitraz and fenvalerate, and for the chicken mite with amitraz.	1	pesticide
1823486	[Experimental studies of the control of mosquitoes of the genus Anopheles using selected insecticides].	In the research 4 compounds: Iodofenphos, Propetamphos, Dioxacarb and Permethrin and two commercial insecticides: Pibutoks Super (Permethrin) and Safrotin 10 WP (Propetamphos) were used to control anophelini females. The chemicals were tested in the laboratory on mosquitoes caught in the nature and the contact method was employed. Propetamphos and Permethrin at concentrations 0.05% and 0.1%, after 2 hours of 1 hour exposure reduced the mosquitoes in 96% and 99.9% respectively. Iodofenphos and Dioxacarb, even at concentration 0.1%, after 24 hours of 1 hour exposure caused barely 78.3% and 83.9% mortality of these insects. Both insecticides tested, in the 7 days period after the spraying, caused more than 97% reduction of the Anopheles population in the cow-sheds.	1	pesticide
1860170	Detection of acrolein and crotonaldehyde DNA adducts in cultured human cells and canine peripheral blood lymphocytes by 32P-postlabeling and nucleotide chromatography.	People are constantly being exposed to toxic and carcinogenic aldehydes. However, little is actually known about the mechanisms underlying the toxic and carcinogenic effects of these aldehydes on human cells. The DNA alkylating activities of two of the more toxic and environmentally prominent alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehydes, acrolein and crotonaldehyde, have been studied utilizing 32P-postlabeling and nucleotide chromatographic techniques. Several putative adducts were observed in DNAs isolated from acrolein- and crotonaldehyde-treated human fibroblasts. One of these acrolein-DNA adducts was tentatively identified as the cyclic 1,N2-hydroxypropanodeoxyguanosine product, 3-(2'-deoxyribosyl)-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-8-hydroxypyrimido[1,2- a]purine-10-one, by co-chromatography with a chemical standard. The 1,N2-hydroxypropanodeoxyguanosine along with other possible adducts, was also found in DNA isolated from peripheral blood lymphocytes obtained from a dog 1 h after receiving a therapeutic dose of 6.6 mg/kg of cyclophosphamide. These results not only demonstrate the presence of acrolein and crotonaldehyde DNA adducts in treated human cells, but also suggest that these sensitive techniques may be useful to the study of the importance of acrolein to both the carcinogenic and antineoplastic activities of cyclophosphamide and other oxazaphosphorine mustards.	1	pesticide
1867643	Relationships between ascorbic acid and alpha-tocopherol during diquat-induced redox cycling in isolated rat hepatocytes.	The effects of diquat-induced redox cycling on the levels of cellular ascorbic acid and alpha-tocopherol were investigated in isolated rat hepatocytes. In untreated hepatocytes, the metabolism of 1 or 2 mM diquat resulted in the depletion of cellular ascorbic acid and glutathione, but not of alpha-tocopherol, in association with the induction of cell death during the experimental period. In 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) pretreated cells, 1 mM diquat induced cell death accompanied by glutathione was rapid (to 9% of controls by 15 min) and cell ascorbate was completely consumed by 2 hr of incubation. In contrast, cellular alpha-tocopherol levels were stable for the first 30 min, but were depleted in association with the onset of lipid peroxidation. Supplementation of 0.1 or 1.0 mM ascorbic acid in the incubation medium delayed the onset of diquat-induced alpha-tocopherol loss, lipid peroxidation and cytotoxicity. When the concentration of exogenous cellular ascorbic acid was consumed to below that of endogenous ascorbic acid, alpha-tocopherol loss and lipid peroxidation were initiated. The results indicate that untreated hepatocytes have an effective multicomponent antioxidant system against diquat-induced oxidative stress. However, when glutathione is depleted from hepatocytes by treatment with BCNU and diquat, ascorbic acid plays a vital role in maintaining cellular alpha-tocopherol levels and survival of the cell.	1	pesticide
1893800	Pheromone/acaricide mixtures in the control of the tick Amblyomma hebraeum: effects of acaricides on attraction and attachment.	Unfed adults and nymphs of the bont tick Amblyomma hebraeum Koch are attracted to hosts on which fed males, emitting an aggregation-attachment pheromone (AAP), are attached. Pheromone/acaricide mixtures have the potential to selectively attract and kill these ticks. We have investigated the effects of three acaricides, amitraz (an amidine), flumethrin (a synthetic pyrethroid) and chlorfenvinphos (an organophosphate), combined with AAP, on the attraction and attachment of the unfed adults. Attraction, measured in field assays involving AAP and CO2, was not inhibited by any of the acaricides. Attachment was measured over 24 h on the ears of rabbits which had been treated with AAP and mixtures of AAP and the acaricides. None of the acaricides inhibited initial attachment. Flumethrin caused rapid and high mortality in attached and unattached ticks. Chlorfenvinphos caused little mortality in the first 24 h on the ears of the rabbits, but 75% of the exposed ticks died over the next 14 days while held in an incubator. Amitraz caused the ticks to detach after an initial period of attachment; there was little mortality in the detached ticks over the next two weeks and they could later be induced to re-attach to other rabbits. Flumethrin was considered to be the compound of choice for use in pheromone/acaricide mixtures.	1	pesticide
1895095	Evaluation of pyrethroids lambda-cyhalothrin, deltamethrin and permethrin against Aedes albopictus in the laboratory.	Three pyrethroids were evaluated in the laboratory against Aedes albopictus females by exposure to insecticide impregnated papers, and to 4th instar Ae. albopictus larvae as insecticide solutions. Lambda-cyhalothrin was found to be the most effective pyrethroid when tested against Aedes albopictus adult females and larvae compared with that of deltamethrin and permethrin.	1	pesticide
1898112	Organochlorine levels in North Atlantic right whale (Eubalaena glacialis) blubber.	Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), total DDT (DDT + DDE + DDD), dieldrin, heptachlor epoxide, chlordanes, and hexachlorobenzene (HCB) were found in blubber biopsies from endangered North Atlantic right whales (Eubalaena glacialis) in the Bay of Fundy and on Browns-Baccaro Banks. Analyses included four sex and age class composite samples from 1988, and 21 individual samples from 1989. Generally, PCBs demonstrated the highest wet weight residue levels (up to 1.9 micrograms/g), followed by total DDT (DDT + DDE + DDD) (trace to 0.47 micrograms/g). Relatively low residue levels in adult females suggest that transmammary organochlorine (OC) residue transfer occurs during lactation. The actual blubber residue loads may have been underestimated, because the samples were taken when the whales were depositing fat reserves and the samples may not have been representative of the remainder of the blubber.	1	pesticide
1907140	Methylparathion, carbaryl and aldrin impact on nitrogen metabolism of prawn, Penaeus indicus.	Changes in hepatopancreas, muscle and gill tissue nitrogen metabolic profiles were studied in a penaeid prawn, Penaeus indicus, following its exposure to sublethal concentrations of methylparathion, carbaryl and aldrin. In all the insecticide exposed prawn tissues, Ammonia levels were significantly increased and a shift in the nitrogen metabolism towards the synthesis of urea and glutamine was observed. Inhibition of glutamate oxidation to ammonia and alpha-ketoglutarate by glutamate dehydrogenase suggests a mechanism whereby hyperammonemia is reduced by minimizing the addition of further ammonia to the already existing elevated ammonia pool. Increased alanine and aspartate aminotransferases demonstrates the onset of gluconeogenesis. Mechanisms to detoxify the ammonia by enhancing the synthesis of urea and glutamine at the cellular level was observed in the selected tissues pave way for the survivability of prawns in insecticide polluted environs.	1	pesticide
1907908	Effects of pyrethroid insecticides on hepatic microsomal enzymes in rats.	The effects of pyrethroid insecticides on hepatic microsomal enzymes were studied in rats. Animals were treated orally with cypermethrin (80 mg/kg), deltamethrin (15 mg/kg), and permethrin (100 mg/kg), as a solution in soyabean oil, for 1 to 20 days. The content of cytochromes P-450 and b5, activity of NADPH cytochrome P-450 reductase, glutathione S-transferase, aniline 4-hydroxylase, p-nitroanisole O-demethylase in microsomes, the activity of glutathione S-transferase, and the level of sulfhydryl groups in cytosol were determined. Also the relative liver weight was measured. Only few changes in the investigated parameters were ascertained. These changes have an irregular and transient character. On the whole, the action of pyrethroids on microsomal enzymes results in a slight induction.	1	pesticide
1958080	In vivo alterations in lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and LDH isoenzymes patterns by acute carbofuran intoxication.	"Intoxication with an acute dose of carbofuran (1.5 mg/kg, sc) in male Sprague-Dawley rats evoked severe toxic manifestations characteristic of hypercholinergic preponderance with profound muscle fasciculations and convulsions during 30-60 min, lasting for about 2 h. Lactate dehydrogenase, a ""biomarker"" cytoplasmic enzyme catalyzing the reversible reaction of lactate-pyruvate, was represented by five electrophoretically distinct isoenzymes in the serum and tissues. The amounts of each isoenzyme in different tissues were widely varied and consequently the patterns were tissue specific. A 24-h time-course following carbofuran administration indicated a two-fold increase in the activity of total LDH in serum and more than 30% in hemidiaphragm and liver. The patterns of LDH isoenzymes in serum revealed a significant (P less than 0.01) increase in all the isoenzymes except LDH-4 (64% decrease). Analysis of each tissue revealed characteristic changes in LDH isoenzyme patterns indicating organ-specific tissue damage. These alterations in LDH and its isoenzymes, in addition to acetylcholinesterase inhibition, may be directly or indirectly related to the mechanism(s) of the toxic action, and also provide insight into the site/organ(s) of toxic injury, thus providing an early prognostic indicator."	1	pesticide
2010292	[Pyrethrin and pyrethroid (permethrin) in the treatment of scabies and pediculosis].	"The history and development of pyrethrum, the natural pyrethrins and synthetic pyrethroids and their insecticidal properties, chemical structure and toxic and allergic side-effects are reported. Permethrin is stressed as a photostable insecticide that is very effective against a large variety of insects and mites with low mammalian toxicity and virtually no allergic side-effects. Only 10-20 min after application, permethrin (1% cream rinse or 0.5% in ethanol) proved to be safe, reliable and cosmetically acceptable in the treatment of infestations with head lice and the prevention of reinfestations, and also in failures with lindane owing to the development of tolerance in the lice. The same was true of 5% permethrin cream (2.5% in children below 5 years of age) used in the treatment of scabies. Permethrin is absorbed percutaneously in only small amounts, is metabolized rapidly in the skin and excreted in the urine. A single ""head to toe"" application is ideal for eradication programmes allowing lice to be targetted and the prevalence of secondary bacterial infections decreased at the same time. Benzyl benzoate has an irritant potential, and lindane has been reported to exert CNS toxicity in a few anecdotal cases, in particular in small children or after repeated applications in patients with scabies crustosa, and permethrin was distinctly superior to both of these. This is documented by the results obtained in the treatment of 48 children and 56 adults suffering from scabies. Permethrin is recommended in scabies therapy in premature infants, small children, patients with seizures and neurological complications, in treatment failures with lindane entailing the need to repeat the therapy, in scabies crustosa and in pregnant women and nursing mothers."	1	pesticide
2033303	Kinetic study on inhibition of earthworm acetylcholinesterase by carbamate insecticides.	The specific activity parameters of Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in adult and immature stages of earthworm (Lumbricus terrestris) were determined. The results show that the tissues of immature and adult stages differ in their affinity rate (Ka) to substrate and maximum enzymic hydrolysis (Vmax). The AChE form of adult stage had higher Vmax value, while the most higher Ka value was shown in the AChE of the immature stage. The studies of inhibition power on the two sources of ACChE indicated that the highest bimolecular inhibition constant value (Ki) was obtained by carbofuran on the AChE of the adult tissues, while aldicarb was the most potent on the immature tissues. The inhibition progress of the AChE by aldicarb was relatively rapid more than the other two tested inhibitors: carbofuran and methomyl.	1	pesticide
2050081	Epizootiology and distribution of transmissible sarcoma in Maryland softshell clams, Mya arenaria, 1984-1988.	Seasonal and geographic studies of transmissible sarcoma in Maryland softshell clams, Mya arenaria, were carried out from 1984 to 1988. Three major epizootics occurred in our sampling location during this time, resulting in prevalences as high as 90%, with comparable mortalities in other high prevalence areas. The disease invaded populations of large adult clams first, later spreading to the small juvenile clam populations. An apparent 2-year cycle was noted with varying seasonal effects. Affected sites tended to be in the main stem of Chesapeake Bay north of Tangier Sound, primarily in the areas where the major harvesting occurs. Several sites, mostly in upstream locations, were consistently free of disease. The epizootiological study supports the interpretation that the disease is infectious exclusively to this species. Regression analysis between sarcoma prevalence and contaminant levels in clam tissues showed a significant correlation (p = 0.0001) between chlordane levels and this disease. No correlations were found with other contaminants that were analyzed.	1	pesticide
2127499	Changes in disposition kinetics of sulphadimidine in response to acute regional liver damage in sheep.	Disposition kinetics of sulphadimidine in sheep, before and after regional liver damage by allyl alcohol, was investigated following a single IV injection (100 mg/kg). Allyl alcohol (12 mg/kg) provoked periportal liver lesion in 60 per cent of the animals. In normal sheep the mean elimination half-life of sulphadimidine was 7.47 +/- 1.09 hours. Liver damage significantly increased this value to 11.68 +/- 1.09 hours. Liver damage by allyl alcohol significantly changed the total body clearance (C1B), the overall elimination rate constant (beta) and the micro-constants k12 and kCl. The apparent volume of distribution (Vd) and the micro-constant k21 were not influenced by liver damage. The mean minimum steady-state concentration (Cp[min]) in normal sheep (38.43 micrograms/ml at 24 hours of interval) was found to be higher than previously reported. Liver intoxication significantly increased this value to 94.38 micrograms/ml. It is suggested that the regional liver damage has affected both the elimination and biotransformation of sulphadimidine.	1	pesticide
2132974	Use of an electrostatic sprayer for control of anopheline mosquitoes.	The Electrodyn sprayer was compared with a compression sprayer (Hudson X-pert) for residual application of cypermethrin, a pyrethroid insecticide, to control the malaria vectors Anopheles arabiensis Patton and An. funestus Giles in experimental huts at Magugu in Tanzania. The time taken for hut spraying, 2-2.5 min per hut, was similar for both types of sprayer. Two or three huts were treated internally with cypermethrin at 40 or 80 mg a.i./m2 using Electrodyn formulation for comparison with 80 mg a.i./m2 using wettable powder formulation. Each of the twelve huts (including five untreated controls) was fitted with window exit traps and either louvre or verandah traps for mosquito sampling. The Electrodyn sprayer was fitted with a pair of elbowed deflectrodes to direct the positively charged spray droplets onto walls and ceiling. All treatments gave 94-100% mortality-rates of indoor-resting anophelines throughout the evaluation period of 11 weeks post-spray. Reductions of An.arabiensis and An.funestus females by 10-42% and 62-91%, respectively, in rooms and by 72% and 51% in exit traps indicated that cypermethrin deterred mosquitoes from entering the huts. Overall mortality-rates of mosquitoes were 66% of both species in huts treated with 40 mg/m2 Electrodyn, 43% An.funestus and 71% An.arabiensis due to 80 mg/m2 Electrodyn formulation and 49% An.funestus and 64% An.arabiensis due to 80 mg/m2 WP formulation (no significant differences). It is concluded that the Electrodyn sprayer with deflectrodes is a convenient and effective means of residual house-spraying with pyrethroid insecticide for malaria vector control.	1	pesticide
2156370	Toxicology of selected pesticides, drugs, and chemicals. Anticoagulant, cholecalciferol, and bromethalin-based rodenticides.	The control of rodent pests is a continuing goal of mankind. To this end, a multitude of rodenticides have been produced, each designed to kill rodents by exerting their toxic effects on various body systems. As examples, veterinarians have had to manage companion animal poisonings due to anticoagulant, sodium fluoroacetate (compound 1080), thallium, barium carbonate, and zinc phosphide-based rodenticides. Many of these rodenticides were introduced because of their anticipated safety in relation to nontarget species; unfortunately, this has not been the case. Veterinarians must attempt to identify the specific rodenticide involved in poisoning cases. Therapeutic success in these poisonings is often more dependent upon symptomatic and supportive care rather than the use of antidotal therapy.	1	pesticide
2280048	Toxicity of several insecticide formulations against adult German cockroaches (Dictyoptera: Blattellidae).	Toxicity of bendiocarb, chlorpyrifos, cyfluthrin, cypermethrin, fenvalerate, hydramethylnon, malathion, propetamphos, propoxur, and pyrethrins against the adult German cockroaches, Blattella germanica (L.), was investigated. At LD50, cyfluthrin was the most toxic insecticide to adult males (0.53 microgram/g), adult females (1.2 micrograms/g), and gravid females (0.85 microgram/g). Malathion was the least toxic insecticide to adult males (464.83 micrograms/g), adult females (335.83 micrograms/g), and gravid females (275.90 micrograms/g). Males and gravid females were generally more sensitive than nongravid females to the insecticides that we tested. In tests with malathion, however, males were more tolerant. The order of toxicity of the insecticide classes varied among the stages of adult German cockroaches. The order of toxicity for males and nongravid females was pyrethroids greater than pyrethrins = organophosphates (except malathion) greater than carbamates = amidinohydrazone. The order of toxicity for gravid females was pyrethroids greater than pyrethrins = organophosphates (except malathion) greater than carbamates greater than amidinohydrazone. These differences in toxicity suggest that sex differences should be considered when determining insecticide toxicity for German cockroaches.	1	pesticide
2334872	Involvement of fungi and bacteria in enhanced and nonenhanced biodegradation of carbendazim and other benzimidazole compounds in soil.	The relationship between chemical structure and the enhancement of microbial degradation of three benzimidazole compounds in soil was determined. Preapplication of methyl benzimidazole-2-ylcarbamate (carbendazim or MBC), 2-aminobenzimidazole (2AB), and benzimidazole enhanced their degradation upon repeated application (self-enhanced degradation). MBC and 2AB cross-enhanced the degradation of each of these two compounds, whereas benzimidazole did not enhance the degradation of MBC. Thiabendazole (TBZ) did not enhance its own degradation or cross-enhance the degradation of MBC. No increase in the number of MBC-degrading fungi or in the capacity of soilborne fungi to degrade MBC was detected in soil exhibiting enhanced MBC degradation (MBC-history). A sharp increase in esterolytic activity in the microsomal fraction of Alternaria alternata capable of degrading MBC in culture was induced by the presence of MBC in the growth medium. 2AB was the main metabolite of MBC that accumulated in A. alternata cultures and in cell-free preparations. MBC was degraded much faster by mixed bacterial cultures that originated from MBC-history soil than in cultures from MBC-nonhistory soil. Fluctuations in the MBC degrading capacity of mixed bacterial cultures occurred during repeated subculturing of the mixed culture. Inoculation of nonhistory soil with mixed bacterial cultures resulted in enhanced MBC degradation, whereas inoculation with A. alternata did not enhance MBC degradation. It is suggested that while fungi contribute to MBC dissipation in soil, bacteria have a greater role in enhanced biodegradation of MBC in soil.	1	pesticide
2341513	Development of an automated high-performance liquid chromatographic method for the on-line pre-concentration and determination of trace concentrations of pesticides in drinking water.	An automated reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method has been developed for the determination of trace concentrations of propoxur, carbofuran, carbaryl, propham, captan, chloropropham, barban and butylate in drinking water. A 100-ml of sample water is passed through a 3-cm precolumn, packed with 5-microns ODS sorbent, at a flow-rate of 5 ml/min. The HPLC system is then switched to an acetonitrile-water gradient elution program. The analytes, which are concentrated on the precolumn, are eluted and separated on a 25-cm C8 analytical column and determined by measuring the UV absorption at 220 nm. The resolution of analytes is excellent regardless of whether the elution from the precolumn is done unidirectionally or with backflushing. The precolumn can be used repeatedly for at least 30 samples without a significant decrease in efficiency. The total analytical time is 60 min. Tap, distilled, deionized, commercial spring and HPLC-grade waters were analyzed. The lowest detectable concentrations are in the range of 10.10(-12)-460.10(-12) g/ml for the eight pesticides with 100 ml of sample.	1	pesticide
2380482	Effects of in ovo injection of carbamates on chick embryo hatchability, esterase enzyme activity and locomotion of chicks.	Carbaryl and aldicarb, two carbamate pesticides used extensively throughout the United States, are known to act as acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. We have demonstrated previously that exposure to carbaryl and aldicarb in young chicks caused persistent locomotion alterations with no correlation to esterase inhibition. In this study, we investigated the effects of these carbamates when injected in ovo to chick embryos, at two time periods (days 5 and 15) during incubation. Carbaryl dosed at 45 mg kg-1 egg weight was extremely toxic to the embryos on day 5 of incubation. Hatchability was reduced to 0% as compared to 80% when carbaryl was injected on day 15 of incubation. Aldicarb at 1.5 mg kg-1 egg weight had no major effect on hatchability when injected either on day 5 or day 15 of incubation (hatchability = 90 and 100%, respectively). Plasma, liver and brain esterases were measured in the chick at different time points during incubation and after hatching. Brain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and liver cholinesterase (ChE) were inhibited significantly during incubation in embryos dosed on day 15 with both carbaryl and aldicarb. Liver carboxylesterase was inhibited significantly during incubation with only the carbaryl treatment. All esterase enzyme activities returned to normal after hatching. Plasma ChE and carboxylesterase levels were not affected with either carbaryl or aldicarb treatment from 8 until 47 days after hatching. Neither carbamate had any effect on brain neuropathy target esterase (NTE) activity either during incubation or after hatching. The locomotion of chicks was affected in both treatment groups until 47 days after hatching. This study indicates that carbaryl and aldicarb may cause long-term delayed alterations in the chicks.	1	pesticide
2413407	Chlordecone toxicity: effect of withdrawal of treatment on ATPase inhibition.	Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated P.O with 10 mg/kg/day chlordecone for 10 days. Five rats from control group receiving corn oil and five rats from chlordecone group were sacrificed for tissue preparations. The remaining rats in chlordecone group were withdrawn from treatment and left in cages for 45 days. At 15, 30 and 45 days after withdrawal, 5 rats from each group with equal number of controls were sacrificed. Brain, liver and kidney were removed and subcellular fractions were prepared. Na+-K+, oligomycin-sensitive and oligomycin-insensitive Mg2+ ATPases were determined. Rats treated with chlordecone for 10 days showed a significant reduction of Na+-K+ ATPase activity in brain and kidney. The decreased enzyme activity in kidney but not in brain returned to normal within 15 days of treatment withdrawal. In brain the enzyme activity stayed at reduced level throughout the experimental period. Oligomycin-sensitive Mg2+ ATPase activity in all the tissues was decreased significantly in chlordecone treated rats. The enzyme activity returned to normal levels in all tissues gradually by 30 days of treatment withdrawal. Oligomycin-insensitive Mg2+ ATPase activity was not decreased in any tissue by chlordecone treatment. These results suggest that chlordecone effects on ATPase system are reversible except for Na+-K+ ATPase in brain.	1	pesticide
2426940	1% permethrin cream rinse vs 1% lindane shampoo in treating pediculosis capitis.	The therapeutic efficacy and tolerance of a single application of 1% permethrin cream rinse, applied for ten minutes, and a single application of 1% lindane shampoo applied, as recommended by the manufacturer, for four minutes, against the head louse Pediculus humanus var capitis were compared in a single-blinded, randomized, controlled clinical trial. Of 573 patients enrolled at eight centers, 559 were assessable for tolerance and 508 for efficacy. Of the 257 patients treated with 1% permethrin cream rinse, 99% were lice free at 14 days; of the 251 patients treated with 1% lindane shampoo, 85% were lice free at 14 days. The difference is statistically significant. For both treatments, adverse experiences were infrequent, mild, and usually difficult to distinguish from the symptoms of head lice infestation. A single ten-minute application of 1% permethrin cream rinse was well tolerated, highly effective, and therapeutically superior to a single four-minute application of 1% lindane shampoo.	1	pesticide
2435068	Influence of chlordecone and mirex exposure on benzo[a]pyrene metabolism of rat-liver microsomes.	The metabolism of benzo[a]pyrene (BP) in hepatic microsomes isolated from rats exposed to chlordecone or mirex was compared to that of untreated rats and rats treated with 3-methylcholanthrene (3-MC) or phenobarbital (PB). Treatment with chlordecone resulted in a two- to three-fold increase in cytochrome P-450 content but the BP-hydroxylase activity per mg microsomal protein was unaffected. Addition of alpha-naphthoflavone (alpha-NF) or chlordecone caused changes in BP-hydroxylase activity indicating that chlordecone-induced cytochromes P-450 were similar to control. H.p.l.c. analyses of BP metabolites confirmed this similarity. Treatment with mirex caused a two-fold induction of cytochrome P-450, and BP-hydroxylase activity expressed per mg microsomal protein was increased 1.3-fold. Addition of chlordecone or alpha-NF caused changes in BP-hydroxylase activity, indicating differences between control and mirex-induced cytochromes P-450. H.p.l.c. analyses of BP metabolites confirmed this difference. Treatment with chlordecone or mirex increased microsomal epoxide hydrolase activity three-fold. Chlordecone accumulated in hepatic nuclei.	1	pesticide
2481745	Induction of cytochrome P-450 isozymes by mirex and chlordecone.	The effect of the insecticides, mirex and chordecone (Kepone), on the cytochrome P-450 monooxygenase system in C57BL/6N mouse liver microsomes was studied. Mice were treated intraperitoneally with low (6 mg/kg) and high (30 mg/kg) doses of mirex and chlordecone in corn oil for 2 days. For comparison, mice were also treated with either phenobarbital (PB) or 3-methylcholanthrene (3-MC). All treatments significantly increased the hepatic microsomal P-450 content over that of controls. Benzphetamine N-demethylase, ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase, benzo[a]pyrene hydroxylase, and acetanilide hydroxylase activities were also determined. Mirex and chlordecone resembled phenobarbital with respect to the induction of monooxygenase activities. Immunoquantitation with antibodies to purified P-450 IIB1 (Pb-induced P-450) and P-450 IA1 (3-MC-induced P-450) indicated that mirex and chlordecone induced P-450 IIB1 in a dose-dependent manner. The high dose of mirex also induced a small amount of a protein cross reacting with the antibody to IA1. The induction of this isozyme did not, however, contribute significantly to the monooxygenase activities measured.	1	pesticide
2482212	Chlorpyrifos: a 13-week nose-only vapor inhalation study in Fischer 344 rats.	Fischer 344 rats were exposed by the nose-only inhalation route to chlorpyrifos vapors at concentrations of 0, 5.2, 10.3, or 20.6 ppb, 6 hr/day, 5 days/week for 13 weeks. The exposure concentrations were limited by the low vapor pressure of chlorpyrifos (theoretical maximum vapor concentration of 25 ppb at 25 degrees C). No treatment-related signs of toxicity or changes in body weights were detected during the course of the study. Urinalysis, hematology, clinical chemistry, organ weights, gross pathologic, and histopathologic evaluations were performed at the end of the study with no treatment-related effects observed. In addition, no differences from controls were noted in plasma, red blood cell, or brain cholinesterase activities. The results of this study indicate that the no-observed-effect level for chlorpyrifos vapor was the highest attainable concentration, 20.6 ppb, in male and female Fischer 344 rats.	1	pesticide
2488029	Preservative effects on the healing rate of rabbit corneal epithelium.	Benzalkonium chloride (BAK), sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS), chlorhexidine digluconate, thimerosal and polyaminopropyl biguanide were tested for their effects on the rate of corneal epithelial regrowth after mechanical lesions, and BAK and SLS after heptanol-generated lesions in rabbit corneas. Only 1.3% SLS reduced the rate of epithelial healing after three times a day drop application as determined using planar measures of epithelial regrowth. SLS, a common ingredient in soups and shampoos, should be used carefully where a lesion or wound is present in the corneal epithelium.	1	pesticide
2490550	Determination of benzalkonium chloride in contact lens solutions by positive-ion fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry.	Under positive-ion fast atom bombardment (FAB) mass spectrometric conditions, benzalkonium chloride (BAK) afforded intense peaks at m/z 304 and 332, corresponding to the intact cations [M--Cl]+ of C12 and C14 homologues, respectively. The use of benzethonium chloride as an internal standard and thioglycerol as a FAB matrix allowed the direct and specific determination of the BAK content (0.004-0.020%) in commercial hard contact lens solutions through the individual assay of the two alkyl homologues. A linear relationship between the homologue concentration and the peak-area ratio was observed over the concentration range 3-180 micrograms ml-1.	1	pesticide
2494798	The effects of 24% paraquat (1,1'-dimethyl-4,4'-bipyridylium dichloride) on hemodynamics, blood gases, plasma lactate and plasma catecholamines in dogs.	The cause of death after ingestion of a large dose of paraquat is unclear. We investigated the cardiovascular effects of paraquat injection in 7 dogs that were anesthetized with urethane and alpha-chloralose and maintained on controlled ventilation. After control measurements, paraquat (20 mg/kg) was injected iv. Average concentrations of plasma paraquat were 128 micrograms/ml at 15 min (point 1) and 44 micrograms/ml at 4 hr. The average time of survival was 5.5 +/- 2.2 hr. Comparison was made of control values, 15 min (point 1), and 2.5 +/- 1.0 hr before death (point 2). Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (+33%) and pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) (+28%) increased, but no change occurred in mean arterial pressure (MAP) or cardiac output (CO) at 15 min. Mean arterial pressure (-50%) and cardiac output (-61%) decreased, while total vascular resistance (+56%) and PVR (+256%) were increased at point 2. Arterial pH decreased from 7.394 and 7.307 (point 1) to 7.143 (point 2). The concentration of plasma catecholamines and lactic acid increased significantly at both points 1 and 2. Renal, adrenal and myocardial tissues were studied by light and electron microscopy. The outstanding feature was early swelling of mitochondria and disruption of the contents in the presence of intact mitochondrial membrane.	1	pesticide
2519678	Effect of tick control on liveweight gain of cattle in central Zambia.	Field trials were carried out during 1982-86 in two different ecotypes in central Zambia to determine the impact of tick control on the liveweight gain (LWG) of cattle. During the first 2 years of the trial a diamidide acaricide (Amitraz) sprayed at weekly intervals caused periodic depression in LWG in young animals. Thereafter a pyrethroid acaricide (cypermethrin) was used. During the 1984-85 tick season infestations of 50-120 adult Amblyomma variegatum Fabricius in untreated animals caused significant reductions in LWG. From the differences in LWG between treated and untreated cattle, the induced loss in LWG was estimated at 46-61 g per engorged female A.variegatum.	1	pesticide
2559119	Susceptibility status of vectors of Japanese encephalitis to insecticides in south Arcot and Tirunelveli districts of Tamil Nadu.	Villages in South Arcot and Tirunelveli districts with high incidence of Japanese Encephalitis were selected for the study of insecticidal resistance to vectors. Culex vishnui and Anopheles hyrcanus group were found to be resistant to DDT (4 per cent for 60 min. exposure) and dieldrin (0.4 per cent for 60 min. exposure) but susceptible to Malathion (5 per cent for 60 min. exposure). So far, this is perhaps the first report of Anopheles hyrcanus group resistant to DDT and dieldrin to be reported from this area. The resistance may be due to extensive use of DDT and HCH for agricultural purposes.	1	pesticide
2581197	Neurological manifestations in humans exposed to chlordecone: follow-up results.	Twenty-three workers chronically exposed to chlordecone developed overt neurologic manifestations. These included postural and intention tremor, gait difficulty and opsoclonus. Blood levels of chlordecone ranged from 2.0 to 33.0 ppm. The manifestations slowly cleared in all but one worker.	1	pesticide
2588705	[Exposure to residues on plant surfaces following the use of plant pesticides in the greenhouse].	Organosphosphorus and carbamate insecticides are quite often used in greenhouses. They represent a group of active principles of toxicological relevance. Initial residues on the surface of cucumber, tomato and ornamental plants, and half-life periods for residue degradation are outlined for carbendazim, dimethoate, fenazox, malathion, methamidophos and pirimiphos-methyl. Residues on plants, concentration in the air, dermal exposition, and inhibition of serum choline esterase activity are shown for methamidophos and aldicarb, respective reentry times being discussed. On harvest and cultivation in greenhouses, dermal exposition as a rule is more relevant than inhalation.	1	pesticide
2607440	Responses of electroreceptors in the snout of the echidna.	1. This is a report of experiments which provide evidence in support of the existence of an electric sense in the echidna, or spiny anteater Tachyglossus aculeatus. It is the first known example of electroreception in a terrestrial animal. 2. In each of four animals anaesthetized with alpha-chloralose, afferent responses were recorded in dissected filaments of the infraorbital branch of the trigeminal nerve which supplies skin of the upper jaw. Recordings were obtained from a total of forty-seven units identified as electroreceptors, by their responses to weak voltage pulses using focal stimulation of the moist skin surface. 3. In the absence of a stimulus, some receptors had an irregular resting discharge; others were silent. The receptive field for each receptor consisted of a discrete spot. Receptive fields were restricted to the tip of the snout. Cathodal stimulation over the receptive spot was excitatory for the duration of an applied voltage pulse. Reversal of stimulus polarity silenced any on-going activity and was followed by a post-anodal rebound excitation. 4. Receptor threshold was best measured not in air but with the snout immersed in tap water. An electric field was applied between a pair of large plate electrodes on either side of the snout. Threshold for thirty receptors lay in the range 1.8-73 mV cm-1. Measurements of response latency and of conduction path length gave estimates of axonal conduction velocities for the afferent fibres of 10-18 m Receptors responded to sinusoidally changing voltage gradients over the range 0.5-200 Hz with a maximum sensitivity at 20 Hz. 5. In one experiment a receptor site was marked with fine pins. Serial sections of the piece of underlying skin revealed a large mucus-secreting gland at the marked spot. Similar glands in skin of the platypus have previously been shown to be the sites of electroreceptors. 6. In a behavioural experiment an echidna was trained to choose between two identical tap water-filled troughs, one of which had a weak electric field across it. The animal learned to detect field strengths down to 1.8 mV cm-1 which corresponded to threshold for the most sensitive receptor measured in a subsequent electro-physiological experiment. It is concluded that the echidna, like the other Australian representative of the monotremes, the platypus, has an electric sense. It remains to be determined what kinds of sources of electric fields the animal encounters in its normal habitat.	1	pesticide
2654546	Influence of bacterial growth of the overnight culture on the captan- and folpet-induced reversion in the Ames test.	The influence of the stage of bacterial growth of the overnight culture on captan- and folpet-induced reversion in the Ames test was investigated. Tests were performed in order to determine both the number of viable bacteria at different intervals of bacterial growth--in the presence or absence of captan and folpet--and also the number of revertants. Captan or folpet were tested at 5 micrograms per plate, a concentration which had previously showed a mutagenic effect to the TA100 strain. The highest induced reversion was obtained when the bacterial culture used had entered the stationary-phase after 10-14 h, with a titre of at least 10(8) viable cells per ml.	1	pesticide
2663061	Binding of captan to DNA polymerase I from Escherichia coli and the concomitant effect on 5'----3' exonuclease activity.	Captan (N-[(trichloromethyl)thio]-4-cyclohexene-1,2-dicarboximide) was shown to bind to DNA polymerase I from Escherichia coli. The ratio of [14C] captan bound to DNA pol I was 1:1 as measured by filter binding studies and sucrose gradient analysis. Preincubation of enzyme with polynucleotide prevented the binding of captan, but preincubation of enzyme with dGTP did not. Conversely, when the enzyme was preincubated with captan, neither polynucleotide nor dGTP binding was blocked. The modification of the enzyme by captan was described by an irreversible second-order rate process with a rate of 68 +/- 0.7 M-1 s-1. The interaction of captan with DNA pol I altered each of the three catalytic functions. The 3'----5' exonuclease and polymerase activities were inhibited, and the 5'----3' exonuclease activity was enhanced. In order to study the 5'----3' exonuclease activity more closely, [3H]hpBR322 (DNA-[3H]RNA hybrid) was prepared from pBR322 plasmid DNA and used as a specific substrate for 5'----3' exonuclease activity. When either DNA pol I or polynucleotide was preincubated with 100 microM captan, 5'----3' exonuclease activity exhibited a doubling of reaction rate as compared to the untreated sample. When 100 microM captan was added to the reaction in progress, 5'----3' exonuclease activity was enhanced to 150% of the control value. Collectively, these data support the hypothesis that captan acts on DNA pol I by irreversibly binding in the template-primer binding site associated with polymerase and 3'----5' exonuclease activities. It is also shown that the chemical reaction between DNA pol I and a single captan molecule proceeds through a Michaelis complex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)	1	pesticide
2694982	Sporozoite antibodies and malaria in children in a rural area of The Gambia.	Sporozoite antibody levels were measured in a group of children aged one to nine years resident in a rural area of The Gambia, using an ELISA to the repeat peptide (NANP)40. The prevalence and titre of antibodies varied with age but not with sex or ethnic group. Significant variations in prevalence were recorded within a group of adjacent villages. Children who were seropositive at the beginning of the dry season had higher spleen and parasite rates both at this time and at the end of the subsequent rainy season than did seronegative children, suggesting that they were exposed more frequently to infection. However, seropositive children had fewer episodes of fever accompanied by high levels of parasitaemia than did seronegative children, suggesting that they had a greater degree of clinical immunity. No differences were found in seroprevalence rates or in mean antibody titres between children who slept under conventional or Permethrin treated bed nets and those who did not, even though bed nets significantly reduced the number of bites by vector mosquitoes.	1	pesticide
2708990	Residual activity of permethrin on cattle as determined by mosquito bioassays.	The residual effectiveness against laboratory-reared female Anopheles quadrimaculatus mosquitoes of a synthetic pyrethroid (permethrin) applied to cattle was determined. Twenty-four-hour postexposure mortality and the degree of successful blood engorgement were determined by exposing mosquitoes for 10 min to cattle. Three replicated assays were conducted and mortality determined at 1, 2, 5, 7, 14 and 21 days after each treatment with an oil-based formulation of permethrin (DeLice) or with an emulsifiable concentrate (Atroban) applied at label rates. Mosquito mortality ranged from 79 to 85% (1 day postapplication) to 12-38% (21 days postapplication).	1	pesticide
2731661	Inhibition of human serum complement activity by diisopropylfluorophosphate and selected anticholinesterase insecticides.	Activation of the human complement (C') system, a major line of defense against infections, requires the participation of serine esterases. Since the widely used anticholinesterase insecticides inhibit serine esterases, the present study evaluated potencies of carbaryl, carbofuran, dichlorvos, and paraoxon to inhibit C' activities of a panel of normal human sera. C'-mediated lysis of sheep red cells was measured with a modified assay (1) incorporating suboptimal concentrations of sensitizing antibody and (2) exhibiting increased sensitivity to serine esterase inhibitors. Test chemicals were added to diluted sera 2 hr prior to incorporation into C' reaction mixtures. Potencies to inhibit C' and serum cholinesterase (CHE) were compared to potencies of diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP), a potent serine esterase inhibitor and a standard probe for C' esterases. At 0.5 to 3.0 mM, carbaryl, carbofuran, dichlorvos, and DFP produced a dose-dependent inhibition of lysis, whereas paraoxon was not inhibitory. On a molar basis, carbaryl was three times more potent than DFP, and inhibited lysis 15-25 and 26-45% at 1.0 and 3.0 mM, respectively. Carbofuran, dichlorvos, and DFP were equipotent. Mean IC50's for inhibition of CHE (a marker for occupational exposure to organophosphates and carbamates) by DFP, paraoxon, dichlorvos, carbofuran, and carbaryl were 1.0 X 10(-8), 4.1 X 10(-8), 1.0 X 10(-7), 3.3 X 10(-6), and 1.8 X 10(-5) M, respectively. Potencies of the insecticides to inhibit CHE did not predict absolute or relative potencies to inhibit serum C' activity.	1	pesticide
2748709	Studies on concentration of halogen derivatives in herbal products from various regions of Poland.	The studies covered evaluation of levels of halogen derivative pesticides (p,p'-DDT and its metabolites p,p'-DDD and p,p'-DDE, as well as HCH, DMDT, aldrin and dieldrin) in herbal raw materials picked up in various regions of Poland in 1983. Qualitative analyses have been carried out with the TLC method whereas for quantitative analyses the GLC method has been applied. It has been found that the most frequently occurring are p,p'-DDT and its metabolites. The highest concentrations of these compounds have been observed in herbs from Lower Silesia and from the Bydgoszcz regions. Also in the region of Białystok concentrations of these compounds are generally higher than in other parts of Poland. Other pesticides have been found in a lesser number of herbal raw materials and in considerably lower concentrations.	1	pesticide
2756375	Pesticide residues in groundwater in The Netherlands: state of observations and future directions of research.	In the first stage of a programme of sampling and analysis for pesticide residues in groundwater in The Netherlands, the upper groundwater below four vulnerable soils was analysed for nearly 2,5 years in eight sampling rounds. Of 18 compounds analysed, including some metabolites, 1,3-dichloropropene, aldicarb, ethoprophos dinoseb, metamitron, atrazine, desethyl- and desisopropylatrazine, metolachlor and ethylenethioureum were repeatedly detected in the groundwater in concentrations above 0.1 micrograms.dm-3, the limit for pesticides in drinking water set by the EC. These observations were made below fields with potatoe-, maize- and bulb flower culture, all on low-humic to moderately humic sandy soils. No residues were found below a cracked light clay on a sandy subsoil. On the locations sampled evidence was found for complete in situ removal in the upper groundwater of 1,3-dichloropropene, high persistence of aldicarb residues and partial in situ degradation of dinoseb.	1	pesticide
2764708	In vitro covalent binding of the pyrethroids cismethrin, cypermethrin and deltamethrin to rat liver homogenate and microsomes.	Phenobarbital-induced rat liver homogenate and microsomes were used to study covalent binding of 14C-labelled (at the alcohol moiety) cismethrin, 14C-labelled (at the alcohol and acid moieties) cypermethrin, and 14C-labelled (at the alcohol and acid moieties) deltamethrin. Covalent binding was dependent on pyrethroid concentration. With liver homogenate, inhibition of esterases by tetraethylpyrophosphate and of mitochondrial respiration by rotenone or potassium cyanide only slightly altered the covalent binding level. With microsomes, inhibition of cytochrome P-450 and mixed function oxidases by carbon monoxide and piperonyl butoxide reduced the covalent binding so far as to be nearly absent. Eighty percent inhibition of epoxide hydrolase decreased the covalent binding by 50%. The comparison of data between alcohol and acid labelling of the same pyrethroid suggested that, in vitro, the whole molecule is bound to proteins and that hydrolysis can occur afterwards. The experiments stress the role of cytochrome P-450-dependent monoxygenases in the covalent binding process.	1	pesticide
2790299	Recovery facilitation of malathion-intoxicated freshwater fish by exposure to hypertonic environment.	The possibility of recovery in a hypertonic environment (10-40% NaCl) was investigated in the freshwater fish Oreochromis niloticus acutely intoxicated with the pesticide Malathion (40 mg/l). Survival was significantly higher in 15 g/l NaCl, with a shorter time required to recover posture and swimming, although 20% of recovered animals died on subsequent days. Exposure to a hypertonic environment plus pesticide did not protect the animals. Fish exposed to air until they became unresponsive recovered faster in freshwater than in a hypertonic environment. It is concluded that a hypertonic environment only facilitates recovery and that although osmotic mechanisms may explain the results, other possibilities remain to be investigated.	1	pesticide
2861033	Binding of insecticides to serum proteins in mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis).	Incubation of various organochlorine insecticides with mosquitofish serum leads to their association with, primarily, the vitellogenin/lipoprotein and albumin fractions. A significant variation in the quantity of each insecticide bound in the particular fractions was observed. Binding appeared to increase with compounds of increasing polarity, suggestive of protein binding. Preincubation of serum with endrin or aldrin significantly reduced the quantity of [3H]DDT subsequently bound while the reverse was not observed. Although the reason for the apparent quantitative decrease in binding is unknown, the reduction in binding of a particular xenobiotic, due to the presence of a second, has serious toxicological implications.	1	pesticide
2888582	Hepatic metabolism of cyclodiene insecticides by constitutive forms of cytochrome P-450 from lower vertebrates.	1. Multiple forms of cytochrome P-450 were separated from the hepatic microsomes of untreated male rats, pigeons (Columbia livia), razorbills (Alca torda), puffins (Fratercula arctica), and rainbow trout (Salmo gairdnerii), using anion exchange chromatography and DEAE-cellulose. 2. In some cases cytochrome P-450 forms were further purified on hydroxylapatite and carboxymethyl-sephadex columns. 3. Considerable differences in the distribution of forms between these five species were evident from elution profiles on DEAE cellulose, and on analysis of the cytochrome P-450 containing pools by SDS-PAGE. 4. The metabolism of two organochlorine compounds, aldrin and the dieldrin analogue HCE, were studied in (a) intact microsomes and (b) reconstituted systems containing cytochrome P-450, from each of the five species. 5. In spite of their close structural similarity, significant differences were found between the two substrates in the distribution of catalytic activity between the cytochrome P-450 isozymes of each species.	1	pesticide
2906685	The effects of selected rice and soybean pesticides on the eggs of Psorophora columbiae.	Twenty-five pesticides used in the production of rice and soybeans in Texas were tested in the laboratory to determine their toxicity to the eggs of Psorophora columbiae. A reduction in hatching rate occurred when eggs were treated with a herbicide formulation containing thiobencarb and with one containing a tank mixture of propanil and molinate. A carbaryl formulation induced hatching of eggs prior to their exposure to the hatching stimulus. Reduced survival to second instar of larvae hatching from treated eggs was observed with insecticide formulations of acephate, carbofuran, malathion, methyl parathion and toxaphene; a fungicide formulation of triphenyltin hydroxide and the tank mixture of the herbicides, propanil and molinate.	1	pesticide
2918686	Effects of a commercial malathion dip preparation on the cellular and humoral immune response of BALB/c mice.	Because of the widespread use of malathion as a treatment for ectoparasitism, a study was undertaken to determine the effects of a malathion dip preparation on the BALB/c mouse immune system. Mice were treated with either 2% (recommended dosage) or 8% solutions of malathion or a water control. The cellular immune response was evaluated by in vitro exposure of lymphocytes to mitogens, and the humoral immune response was assessed by using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to quantify antibody production against sheep red blood cells (SRBC). Responses to the mitogens and to the SRBC were not significantly different between 2% and 8% malathion treated and water treated mice. Results indicated that malathion did not affect these two aspects of the mouse immune system when used as a 2% or 8% dipping solution.	1	pesticide
2925011	Investigations of amitraz neurotoxicity in rats. III. Effects on motor activity and inhibition of monoamine oxidase.	The formamidine pesticide amitraz (AMZ) produces many behavioral and physiological changes in rats. We examined the dose effect and time course of AMZ on motor activity, monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity, and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity to evaluate possible neurochemical mechanisms for the behavioral effects of AMZ. For motor activity studies, male Long-Evans hooded rats were tested in photocell activity measurement devices. AMZ produced dose-related decreases in motor activity of rats allowed free access to food and rats maintained at a stable body weight through food restriction. Lowest effective doses of AMZ tested were 1-3 mg/kg, administered 20 min before testing. AMZ appeared to be about three times more potent in food-restricted rats, indicating that amount of body fat may play a significant role in the pharmacokinetics of AMZ. Motor activity returned to control levels over 4-5 days after dosing with 100-200 mg/kg AMZ, whereas recovery was evident the day after administration of low doses (1-30 mg/kg). Inhibition of MAO was measured in whole brain of rats sacrificed at various times after dosing with AMZ. Only greater than or equal to 100 mg/kg AMZ inhibited MAO, which was measurable within 2 hr of dosing and lasted up to 7 days. AMZ appeared to be more selective for type B MAO when given in vivo, although MAO-A was also inhibited at doses greater than or equal to 300 mg/kg. However, no selectivity was indicated by the IC50 values determined in vitro (IC50 = 31 and 28 microM for MAO-A and MAO-B, respectively). AMZ produced only negligible inhibition of AChE at the highest doses administered in vivo or at 10 mM in vitro. These data indicate that while AMZ does inhibit MAO, the dose range over which it produces this action is much higher than that which suppressed motor activity. Thus MAO inhibition is probably not responsible for AMZ-induced alterations in motor activity.	1	pesticide
2980190	Observations on the susceptibility of Ctenocephalides felis (Siphonaptera: Pulicidae) to malathion and permethrin in Tanzania.	Laboratory-reared Ctenocephalides felis (Bouche) adults were tested with 0.5% malathion and 0.5% permethrin, using the standard WHO methods. After 24 h exposure to malathion (3.6 mg/cm2), 92% of the fleas died. The LT50 for malathion was approximately 8 h. Permethrin (0.45 mg/cm2) produced 100% mortality of exposed insects after 24 h while with a higher dose (0.9 mg/cm2) all fleas died after 8 h exposure. LT50 for the two doses of permethrin were 7.7 and 1.05 h, respectively. The failure of the diagnostic dose of malathion to kill 100% of the population was attributed to resistance. Permethrin is a suitable pesticide for controlling fleas of domestic animals in Tanzania.	1	pesticide
3058170	Effect of chemical germicides on the integrity of hemodialyzer membranes.	Epidemiologic investigations of bacteremia in dialysis patients by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) identified an association with the use of dialyzers disinfected with a specific chemical germicide. A collaborative study by the CDC and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) was conducted to determine the effect of dialyzer disinfectants on five types of dialyzer membranes: three cellulosic (Cuprophan, cellulose acetate, cuprammonium rayon); and two synthetic (polysulfone, polyacrylonitrile). The disinfectants tested were: 4% formaldehyde; Renalin; Cidex Dialyzer; Sporicidin HO; Warexin; and RenNew-D. Water was the control. Dialyzers were reprocessed up to 15 times. Each reprocessing consisted of rinsing, air-leak testing, filling with fresh disinfectant, and storing for 2 to 4 days. After 15 reprocessings or air-leak failure, each dialyzer was microbiologically challenged for membrane integrity. Membranes exposed to Renalin, Cidex Dialyzer, and water passed all tests. Cellulosic membranes exposed to Warexin failed all tests after 2 to 9 reprocessings. Cellulose acetate membranes exposed to Sporicidin HD failed microbiologic testing. One polysulfone dialyzer exposed to RenNew-D and one exposed to 4% formaldehyde failed microbiologic testing. These results and those obtained from epidemiologic studies suggest that membrane integrity testing (e.g. an air-leak test) should be an integral part of dialyzer reprocessing.	1	pesticide
3075379	In vivo immunosuppression by synthetic pyrethroid (cypermethrin) pesticide in mice and goats.	Cypermethrin toxicity was produced in mice by intra-peritoneal injection of the pesticide at 50 mg/kg body weight per day for 26 days, and in goats by drenching with cypermethrin at 41.6 mg/kg body weight per day for 30 days. The status of cell-mediated immunity (CMI) was assessed by the 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene (DNFB) skin sensitivity test. The results indicated significant depression of CMI in the cypermethrin-treated mice and goats. In addition, the humoral immune reaction of the goats intoxicated with cypermethrin was estimated by enumeration of the plaque-forming B-lymphocytes. The rate of plaque formation in the lymphocyte suspension of cypermethrin-treated goats was significantly reduced and the diameter of the plaques was also significantly lower than in that of control animals. The results indicated that cypermethrin suppressed both CMI and the antibody-forming ability of lymphocytes. This immunosuppressive action of cypermethrin is being reported for the first time.	1	pesticide
3083808	The biochemical genetics of permethrin resistance in the Learn-PyR strain of house fly.	"Permethrin resistance in the Learn-PyR strain of house fly was examined in four genetically derived substrains, each being homozygous for a different ""resistant"" autosome of the Learn-PyR strain. The resistance of these derivative strains was characterized toxicologically and biochemically. The relative levels of resistance to permethrin conferred by each autosome were 5 greater than 3 greater than 1 greater than 2. Three factors were associated with resistance: (1) increased mixed-function oxidase (MFO) activity associated with elevated levels of cytochrome P-450, cytochrome b5, and NADPH-cytochrome c reductase (P-450 reductase) activity; (2) target-site insensitivity (kdr); and (3) decreased cuticular penetration. Permethrin resistance factors on chromosome 1 consisted of a piperonyl butoxide (PB)-suppressible mechanism correlated with increased levels of cytochromes P-450 and b5; on chromosome 2, a PB-suppressible mechanism associated with elevated amounts of cytochrome P-450; on chromosome 3, decreased cuticular penetration, kdr, and increased amounts of P-450 reductase activity; and on chromosome 5, a largely PB-suppressible mechanism correlated with elevated levels of cytochrome P-450 and P-450 reductase activity."	1	pesticide
3086564	Kinetics of carbaryl and malathion in combination in the rat.	The disposition and metabolism of pesticides used in combination, especially carbaryl and malathion, is of considerable toxicological importance. Radioactivity was rapidly absorbed from the rat gastrointestinal tract (GIT) following the administration of 0.25 ml of 10 mg/kg [14C]carbaryl (0.80 microCi), 10/10 mg/kg [14C]carbaryl/malathion (0.80 microCi), 10 mg/kg [14C]malathion (1.03 microCi), or 10/10 mg/kg [14C]malathion/carbaryl (0.86 microCi). The. administration of carbaryl or malathion, individually and in combination, followed a two-phase elimination model. The presence of malathion decreased the rate constants of absorption and beta-phase elimination of [14C]carbaryl. In the mean time, the length of the distribution phase and the area under the curve of [14C]carbaryl were decreased by malathion administration. Although [14C]malathion's absorption half-life was unchanged in the presence of carbaryl, increases were noted in the length of the distribution phase, beta-phase elimination half-life, and area under the curve for malathion when administered simultaneously with carbaryl. Both combinations caused an increase in 14C activity to be deposited in the fat as compared to the respectively labeled pesticide. However, only malathion increased the concentration of [14C]carbaryl remaining in the GIT tissues after the administration of the combined pesticides. The subcellular distribution of the liver indicated that the highest activity was present in the cytosol. These pesticides and their combinations were excreted primarily by the kidney, followed by the lung and the intestinal route. Although there was no alteration in the metabolic pathways due to the combinations, an increase in malaoxon and malathion diacid concentration in urine was observed after the administration of [14C]malathion/carbaryl as compared to [14C]malathion. The results from this study revealed that the combination of these pesticides altered fundamental pharmacokinetic parameters, which may explain some of the toxicities associated with exposure to these chemicals in combination.	1	pesticide
3177222	Correlation of fluorescent tracer measurements of dermal exposure and urinary metabolite excretion during occupational exposure to malathion.	Nineteen workers conducting mixing and high-volume airblast applications of the organophosphorus pesticide malathion were monitored simultaneously by biological monitoring and fluorescent tracer evaluation of dermal exposure. Complete 72-hr urine samples were collected and analyzed for dimethylthiophosphate and dimethyldithiophosphate metabolites. Dermal exposure was measured through the addition of a fluorescent tracer to the tank mix, subsequent examination of the skin surface under long-wave ultraviolet light, and fluorescence quantification with a video imaging system. Dermal exposure to applicators was correlated highly with total metabolite excretion (r = 0.91). Mixer exposure was not correlated significantly (r = 0.73) because of wide scatter in the data and the small number of workers monitored. Applicator exposures were more than 3 times higher than mixer exposures, reflecting the high exposure potential inherent in airblast spraying. Exposure to regions protected by gloves or clothing was more than 75% of total exposure for both mixers and applicators. These results provide evidence that the fluorescent tracer technique is a valid methodology for measuring relative levels of dermal exposure during agricultural work activities. The technique also holds promise as a quantitative procedure for evaluating the effectiveness of engineering control strategies and protective clothing performance.	1	pesticide
3210218	Prevention of blowfly strike on sheep by cypermethrin.	Merino ewe lambs (n = 500) were used in a trial to assess the efficacy of cypermethrin in preventing blowfly strike on sheep. Three hundred of these lambs were treated with 300 mg cypermethrin each and run as a separate flock. One hundred lambs were used as untreated controls and a further 100 lambs were treated topically with a larval growth regulator as treated control animals. It was found that the synthetic pyrethroid afforded total protection for 3 weeks against strike by Lucilia cuprina. The blowfly challenge was heavy, and 26% of the untreated control animals were struck in the 4 week trial period.	1	pesticide
3396790	The effects of type I and II pyrethroids on motor activity and the acoustic startle response in the rat.	Recent data have demonstrated that the in vivo effects of low dosages of two pyrethroids, cismethrin and deltamethrin, can be differentiated. Two behavioral tests, locomotor activity and the acoustic startle response (ASR), were utilized to separate the behavioral actions of Type I and II pyrethroids using permethrin, RU11679, cypermethrin, RU26607, fenvalerate, cyfluthrin, flucythrinate, fluvalinate and p,p'-DDT. Dosage-effect functions for all compounds were determined for both figure-eight-maze activity and the ASR in the rat. All compounds were administered po in 1 ml/kg corn oil 1.5-3 hr prior to testing. All compounds produced dosage-dependent decreases in locomotor activity. The Type I compounds, permethrin and RU11679, along with p,p'-DDT, increased amplitude and had no effect on latency to onset of the ASR. In contrast, the Type II pyrethroids, cypermethrin, cyfluthrin, and flucythrinate, decreased amplitude and increased the latency to onset of the ASR. Fenvalerate increased the amplitude, had no effect on latency, but unlike the other compounds tested, increased ASR sensitization. Fluvalinate had no effect on any measure of the ASR. These data provide further evidence of the differences between the in vivo effects of low dosages of Type I and II pyrethroids, and extend the findings of our previous work to other representatives of the two classes of pyrethroids.	1	pesticide
3400277	Human dose-excretion studies with pyrethroid insecticides cypermethrin and alphacypermethrin: relevance for biological monitoring.	1. Dose-excretion studies with cypermethrin (as a 1:1 cis/trans mixture) and alphacypermethrin (one of the two disastereoisomer pairs which constitute cis cypermethrin) were carried out with, in each case, two volunteers per dose level. The studies included (a) single oral alphacypermethrin doses of 0.25 mg, 0.50 mg and 0.75 mg followed by repeated alphacypermethrin doses at the same levels, daily for five days, (b) repeated oral cypermethrin doses of 0.25 mg, 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg daily for five days, and (c) a single dermal application of 25 mg cypermethrin to the forearm. Urine was monitored for the free and conjugated 3-(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid before and after dosing. 2. Metabolism and rate of excretion of a single oral dose of alphacypermethrin was similar to that of cis cypermethrin, on average, 43% of the dose was excreted as the cyclopropanecarboxylic acid in the first 24 h urine. There was no increase in urinary metabolite excretion when alphacypermethrin was administered as a repeated oral dose. Subjects excreted, on average, 49% of the dose as the cyclopropanecarboxylic acid in the subsequent 24 h periods after dosing. 3. There was no increase in the urinary cyclopropanecarboxylic acid excretion when cypermethrin was administered as a repeated oral dose. Subjects excreted, on average, 72% of the trans isomer dose and 45% of the cis isomer dose respectively in the subsequent 24 h periods after dosing. 4. Approximately 0.1% of the applied dermal dose of 25 mg cypermethrin was excreted within 72 h as the urinary cyclopropanecarboxylic acid. No conclusions can be drawn from such urinary excretion data as to the concentration of cypermethrin and its metabolites in the skin or other organs, or the possibility of other routes of metabolism or excretion.	1	pesticide
3415221	Bacterial metabolism of carbofuran.	Fifteen bacteria capable of degrading carbofuran (2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl methylcarbamate) were isolated from soil samples with a history of pesticide application. All isolates were gram negative and were oxidase- and catalase-positive rods; they occurred singly or as short chains. All of the identified isolates belonged to one of two genera, Pseudomonas and Flavobacterium. They were separated into three groups based on their mode of utilization of carbofuran. Six isolates were placed in group I; these isolates utilized carbofuran as a sole source of nitrogen. Seven isolates were placed in group II; these isolates utilized the pesticide as a sole source of carbon. Isolates of both groups I and II hydrolyzed carbofuran to carbofuran phenol. Two isolates, designated group III, also utilized carbofuran as a sole source of carbon. They degraded the pesticide more rapidly, however, so up to 40% of [14C]carbofuran was lost as 14CO2 in 1 h. The results suggest that these isolates degrade carbofuran by utilizing an oxidative pathway.	1	pesticide
3415898	Prolonged suxamethonium-induced neuromuscular blockade associated with organophosphate poisoning.	We report a patient, exposed to Malathion during agricultural work, who suffered a prolonged apnoea after the administration of suxamethonium. He had a normal phenotype (E1u E1u), but an extremely low plasma cholinesterase activity. The diagnosis was made by assaying cholinesterase activity and analysing the enzymic components by electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gel slabs. The results indicated that the apnoea was a result of the low activity of plasma cholinesterase induced by Malathion.	1	pesticide
3524461	Mapping of the triazine binding site to a highly conserved region of the QB-protein.	A number of herbicide classes, including the s-triazines and ureas (atrazine, diuron) inhibit photosynthetic electron transport via a direct interaction with the QB-protein. This protein, also known as the 32-kDa protein or herbicide binding protein, is believed to bind the plastoquinone QB, which functions as the second stable electron acceptor at the reducing side of Photosystem II. The site of covalent attachment of the photoaffinity herbicide analog azido-[14C]atrazine to the QB-protein of spinach chloroplast thylakoid membranes has been determined. Two amino acid residues are labeled; one residue is methionine-214, the other lies between histidine-215 and arginine-225. Both residues are within a region of the amino acid sequence which is highly conserved between the QB-protein and the L and M reaction center proteins of Rhodopseudomonas capsulata and R. sphaeroides. This region includes the site of a mutation which results in diuron resistance in Chlamydomonas reinhardi (valine-219). However, this region is well removed from point mutations at phenylalanine-255 (which gives rise to atrazine resistance in C. reinhardi) and at serine-264, (which results in extreme atrazine resistance in C. reinhardi and naturally occurring weed biotypes). The patterns of labeling and mutation imply that the quinone and herbicide binding site is formed by at least two protein domains.	1	pesticide
3541392	The metabolism of fungicides.	Of the three main groups of pesticides (insecticides, fungicides and herbicides), fungicides have probably the longest history, dating back to the accidental discovery in 1882 of Bordeaux mixture and the value of copper-based preparations for the control of vine downy mildew disease. In more recent times a wide range of fungicides have become available, including compounds with not only protectant but systemic activity, and total world-wide sales in 1983 were estimated at 2.8 billion dollars. This review attempts to summarize the current state of knowledge as it relates to the metabolism in animals and plants of examples of several of the major fungicide groups. Specifically the metabolism of maneb, mancozeb, zineb, captan, chlorothalonil, benomyl, triadimefon, triadimenol and cymoxanil are discussed.	1	pesticide
3555754	Inhibition of yeast respiration and fermentation by benomyl, carbendazim, isocyanates, and other fungicidal chemicals.	The inhibition of yeast (Saccharomyces cerevesiae) metabolism by fungicidal chemicals was investigated. Glucose- or ethanol-dependent yeast respiration was measured with an oxygen electrode, and manometric determination of carbon dioxide release was used to measure fermentation. Both respiration and fermentation were inhibited more by benomyl than by identical molar concentrations of its breakdown product, carbendazim. Butyl isocyanate, another benomyl breakdown product, inhibited respiration more but inhibited fermentation less than the parent compound. Of the isocyanates tested, hexyl isocyanate was the most inhibitory towards both activities. Captan was more active and iprodione less active than benomyl. Because benomyl rapidly broke down to carbendazim when it was prepared in 80% ethanol, only 59% of the dissolved benomyl was intact when it was added to yeast to determine its effect on respiration or fermentation.	1	pesticide
3605467	Exposure to aerial malathion application and the occurrence of congenital anomalies and low birthweight.	The association between exposure to low dose malathion, after its aerial application to 13,000 square miles in the San Francisco Bay area, and the occurrence of birth defects and low birthweight was examined using newborn hospital discharge data and vital records. No biologically plausible pattern of association was found. Limitations in the data and analysis are discussed.	1	pesticide
3628175	Malathion induced alterations in the lipid profile and the rate of lipid peroxidation in rat brain and spinal cord.	Malathion, known as a low toxic pesticide, is frequently used in the third world. Neurotoxic manifestations of malathion were evaluated on various lipids and lipid peroxidation in different brain areas following intraperitoneal injections (150 mg/kg body weight for 7 consecutive days) to albino rats. Clinical investigations show that malathion produced hypomotor activity and hyperthermia. Lipid components were differently affected by this pesticide, where total lipids and phospholipids were diminished in the spinal cord and brain stem, respectively. Increased contents of cholesterol were found in the cerebellum and spinal cord. Also, total lipids were increased in the cerebellum. The cholesterol/phospholipids ratio was increased in the cerebellum, brain stem and spinal cord. Rate of lipid peroxidation was found to be increased in all parts of the brain following malathion intoxication.	1	pesticide
3655189	The effects of various soil factors and amendments on the degradation of pesticide mixtures.	Soil disposal is the most common method of handling dilute pesticide wastes. The effects of several soil factors on the degradation of a pesticide mixture were investigated. Atrazine, captan, carbaryl, 2,4-D, diazinon, fenitrothion, and trifluralin were studied under varying laboratory conditions of soil type, pH, moisture content, organic matter content, microbial activity, and pesticide concentration. Of the variables investigated, pesticide concentration was the single most important factor with degradation rates much slower at high (1000 ppm) levels of fortification than moderate (100 ppm) levels. Under most conditions, chemical degradation was at least as significant as microbial degradation. Effects of other factors varied considerably and were pesticide dependent.	1	pesticide
3657906	Compatibility of Metarhizium anisopliae var. anisopliae with chemical pesticides.	The effects of various insecticides on the mycelial growth, sporulation and conidial germination of Metarhizium anisopliae var. anisopliae isolate E9 were studied in the laboratory. Chlorpyrifos was the most toxic organophosphate to mycelial growth and sporulation at all concentrations. Temephos, malathion and leptophos were highly toxic to sporulation while malathion was the most inhibitory to germination. The carbamates, carbofuran, methomyl and oxamyl were moderately toxic to mycelial growth and sporulation while oxamyl had an adverse effect on germination. The pyrethroids (pyrethrin, permethrin and resmethrin) and the insect growth regulators (diflubenzuron and methoprene) were not inhibitory to the various developmental stages of isolate E9. The chlorinated hydrocarbons (chlordane, lindane and toxaphene) were more deleterious than all other insecticide groups tested. Among the fungicides, benomyl and maneb produced the greatest inhibition.	1	pesticide
3667923	Effect of decontamination procedures on recovery of Nocardia spp.	Exposure to 0.5% N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC), 2% NaOH-NAC, or benzalkonium chloride in trisodium phosphate (Zephiran-TSP) was toxic for Nocardia isolates. The number of viable Nocardia cells in a standardized suspension was reduced by 10(2) to 10(6) after a 30-min exposure to 2% NaOH-NAC and by 10(4) or more after a 30-min treatment with Zephiran-TSP.	1	pesticide
3694709	Direct suppression of cultured spleen cell responses by chlordane and the basis for differential effects on in vivo and in vitro immunocompetence.	Immunosuppression by gamma-chlordane was examined by the direct addition of chlordane to cultured spleen cells from untreated B6C3F1 mice. Both cell-mediated and humoral immune responses were markedly suppressed upon in vitro exposure. The mixed lymphocyte response and the proliferative response to both B- and T-cell mitogens were significantly suppressed at micromolar concentrations of chlordane. The antibody response to sheep erythrocytes (SRBC) was suppressed 90% at 10 microM chlordane. The kinetics of the SRBC response were not altered by chlordane. Addition of chlordane to the antibody cultures on various days indicated an effect at the early stages of the response. Previous studies with chlordane failed to demonstrate immunosuppression following in vivo exposure. The possibility that chlordane was metabolized in vivo to a less immunosuppressive form was studied by examining the effect of the major metabolite, oxychlordane, on the in vitro antibody response and by incubating splenocytes with chlordane and a liver S9 preparation prior to culture with SRBC. Oxychlordane was immunosuppressive by itself, and the activity of chlordane was unaltered in the co-culture experiments. The association of chlordane with serum components was evaluated in vitro in cultures of mouse bone-marrow cells (BMC). The chlordane-induced suppression of [3H]thymidine incorporation by BMC was reversed by the addition of mouse or human serum. In summary, chlordane produces marked suppression of in vitro immune responses via an apparent antiproliferative action. The failure of chlordane to produce in vivo immunosuppression may be related to extensive association of chlordane with serum components.	1	pesticide
3783766	Organochlorine pesticides in human milk from different areas of Kenya 1983-1985.	Residue levels of the chlorinated hydrocarbons p,p'-DDT (2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)-1,1,1-trichloroethane), p,p'-DDE (2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)-1,1-dichloroethane), hexachlorobenzene (HCB), alpha-, beta-, and gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH), aldrin, dieldrin, and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) were determined in human milk of Kenyan mothers living in different areas of Kenya. The main organochlorine contaminants found in all the milk samples analyzed were p,p'-DDT and p,p'-DDE. Great regional differences were found, and mean levels of sum DDT and DDT/DDE ratio ranged from 1.1 to 18.7 mg/kg milk fat and from 0.7 to 5.7, respectively. In general, relatively low residue levels of HCB, alpha-HCH, beta-HCH, aldrin, and dieldrin were detected in 59, 37, 27, 37, and 19%, respectively, of all the milk samples analyzed. Quantifiable residue levels of PCBs and alpha-HCH were not found. The results were examined in relation to differences in living conditions with regard to agricultural activities, dietary habits, and reported use of pesticides in the various sampling areas.	1	pesticide
3798473	The effects of chlordane and rotenone on the alimentary tract of the field cricket.	Cricket nymphs (Acheta pennsylvanicus) were treated with the publicly available, commercial forms of 2 generically termed stomach poisons; chlordane and rotenone, and the resulting tissue changes were histologically compared against a control group. Examination utilized stained and unstained slides of the insect's fat body, alimentary tract, and malpighian tubules. The 2 dissimilar operating insecticides shared common effects such as the storage of dark bodies in the fat body, and the structural disruption of the caecal lining and the malpighian tubules. In addition, a unique effect of chlordane was shown that had not been conclusively recorded before. This insecticide demonstrated the striking ability to rapidly penetrate the internal digestive tract cuticle lining of the proventricular plates resulting in cellular damages. Concern is expressed about chronic exposures to the insecticides, especially chlordane, since it has widespread use and long persistence.	1	pesticide
3819333	Toxicity of some ricefield pesticides to the crayfish P. clarkii, under laboratory and field conditions in Lake Albufera (Spain).	Static toxicities in mature crayfish (Procambarus clarkii) were determined, for eight insecticides, two herbicides and one fungicide which were frequently used in rice cultivation at Lake Albufera in Valencia (Spain). Three concentrations of each product were used: a) The concentration that was recommended by the dealer (in mg/L of active ingredient): Carbofuran 0.40, Carbaryl 0.80, Malathion 0.80, Trichlorfon 0.40, Endosulfan 0.56, Lindane 0.56, Fenitrothion 0.40, Cyfloxylate 0.02, Molinate-Thiobencarb 1.50, Copper Sulfate 0.42, b) Half of the recommended concentration. c) Double of the recommended concentration. In all three of the concentrations tested, only Fenitrothion and Cyfloxylate caused a considerable mortality. The other ones do not actually produce any important effects on P. clarkii in our conditions. Nevertheless, insecticides are more toxic than herbicides or fungicides, as the latter show a rather low toxicity.	1	pesticide
3921591	The relationship between dermal pesticide exposure by fruit harvesters and dislodgeable foliar residues.	Dermal pesticide exposure rates, expressed in mg/hr, by strawberry and blueberry harvesters and dislodgeable foliar pesticide residues were determined in 7 separate field experiments during 1981-1983 in California and Oregon. The pesticides which were studied included captan, vinclozolin, carbaryl, and methiocarb. A positive correlation between these two parameters was found and compared with literature values involving different pesticides and tree crops. The ratio between dermal exposure rate and dislodgeable foliar residues, the units of which are area/time, may have a possible use as an empirical factor for a first approximation of dermal exposure rates by fruit harvesters without the involvement of human subjects.	1	pesticide
3927658	Induction of rat hepatic drug metabolizing enzymes by substituted urea herbicides.	Effects of eight structurally closely related substituted urea herbicides were investigated on the induction of cytochrome P-450 dependent monooxygenase enzyme complex, as well as on two conjugating enzymes after short-term treatment of rats. Liver microsomal cytochrome P-450 content was induced approximately by 50%. Cytochrome P-450 dependent monooxygenase activities showed a great variety depending on the substrate and on the herbicide. Two-18-fold induction was detected with 7-ethoxycoumarin, while up to 8-fold induction was measured with benzo(a)pyrene. Aldrin epoxidase activities were increased up to 3-fold, and aminopyrine N-demethylase activities were only slightly different from the control level. UDP-glucuronyltransferase and glutathione S-transferase activities were enhanced up to 2-fold. The results indicate that chemical structure of the related substituted urea compounds, the number of halogen substituents on their phenyl group exert a strong influence on the induction of monooxygenases.	1	pesticide
3935099	Effect of dietary exposure to aflatoxin B1 on resistance of young chickens to organophosphate pesticide challenge.	White leghorn chickens were placed on a diet containing 0, 1000, or 3000 ppb aflatoxin B1 for 7 weeks. At the end of that time, the birds were challenged orally with the organophosphate pesticide malathion. A malathion dose of 215 mg/kg resulted in significant clinical signs of cholinergic poisoning in 4/10, 5/10, and 8/10 birds fed 0, 1000, and 3000 ppb aflatoxin B1, respectively, and the chickens required antidotal atropine 40 min later. Activity of brain cholinesterase was significantly lower than control levels in all birds given this dose of malathion, with activities being 28% +/- 6, 21% +/- 2, and 15% +/- 2 of control values (Mean +/- standard error, N = 5) if fed 0, 1000, and 3000 ppb aflatoxin B1, respectively. Plasma cholinesterase values paralleled those of brain, with significantly more inhibition in samples from birds given 1000 and 3000 ppb aflatoxins with malathion. Brain and plasma cholinesterase activities in birds fed aflatoxins and given a dose of malathion below the threshold for cholinergic signs (125 mg/kg) were also lower than activities in birds given malathion alone. Although aflatoxin alone had no direct effect on the activities of these enzymes, it appears that this mycotoxin may contribute to the esterase inhibition that is a manifestation of the acute toxic effects of malathion in chickens.	1	pesticide
3937849	Organochlorine residues in finfish from Maryland waters 1976-1980.	Organochlorine pesticide and herbicide levels were monitored in samples of a variety of edible finfish harvested from the Maryland section of the Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries over a five-year period (1976-80). Qualitative and quantitative information was obtained for the various polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB's), heptachlor, alpha-BHC, chlordane, DDD, DDE, DDT, dieldrin, endrin, heptachlorepoxide, lindane, mirex, methoxychlor, aldrin, toxaphene, hexachlorobenzene, kepone and dacthal. In addition to analyses of the flesh of the animals, organochlorine residue levels were determined in roe or gonad tissue of several samples. Striped bass, white perch and yellow perch samples showed significantly higher concentrations of certain of these substances in roe or gonad tissue, especially PCB's, chlordane, DDD and dieldrin. Significantly higher levels of six organochlorine residues were found in the gonad tissue of striped bass; however, similar studies on gonad tissue of American Shad, harvested from the same region, show no such enhancement. Rather, the reverse is true; levels of certain organochlorine residues are higher in flesh tissue. All mean values, and virtually all individual values of organochlorine concentrations in the edible portion of the fish were within the U.S. Food and Drug Administration guideline, where such guidelines have been established.	1	pesticide
3964078	Induction of chromosomal aberrations in the Syrian hamster by insecticides tested in vivo.	The insecticides demeton, dimetoat, dichlorovos, endosulfan, trichlorofon, carbaryl, lindane, methoxychlor, propoxur and malathion were examined for their ability to induce chromosomal aberrations in the bone marrow cells of the Syrian hamster (Mesocricetus auratus) treated in vivo. Mutagenicity of commercial preparations was examined at four doses: LD50; 1/2, 1/5 and 1/10 LD50. The positive control was an IP injection of cyclophosphamide to hamsters at a dose of 40 mg/kg body wt. Demeton, dichlorovos and endosulfan gave positive results. Malathion, dimethoate and the mixture of methoxychlor and propoxur were weakly clastogenic; at some doses these compounds induced statistically significant increases in the number of aberrations. Trichlorfon and the mixture of carbaryl and lindane were negative in this test.	1	pesticide
3987597	A comparison of physiological changes in carp, Cyprinus carpio, induced by several pollutants at sublethal concentrations. I. The dependency on exposure time.	Carp were exposed to 10 different pollutants at sublethal concentrations for 6, 24, or 72 hr. Blood, liver, and white muscle samples were taken after the exposure time together with samples of control handled fish. Serum concentrations of glucose, cortisol protein, and cholesterol were determined. Similarly, the liver and muscle glycogen contents were measured. The effects of the following pollutants were examined: aldrin (100 micrograms/liter), atrazine (100 micrograms/liter), DDT (50 micrograms/liter), dieldrin (20 micrograms/liter), endrin (2 micrograms/liter), hexachlorbenzene (100 micrograms/liter), lindane (100 micrograms/liter), methanol (1 ml/liter), 4-N-phenol (100 micrograms/liter), toluene (100 microliters/liter). The rises in serum glucose and cortisol were the most frequent changes occurring after exposure to the pollutants. A decline in plasma protein and cholesterol content was also often observed. Liver glycogen concentration increased first in most cases and was reduced after longer exposure. Muscle glycogen was affected differently, sometimes reduced by exposure to the pollutants. The experimental design allows for the gradual increase in toxicity of the pollutants used regarding the applied concentrations. Furthermore, the aim of the paper is to evaluate the tests for proof of toxicity of those chemicals. The determination of serum glucose and cortisol levels can be proposed as mostly useful. The clearest changes in all parameters were found after treatment with 100 micrograms/liter atrazine and 50 micrograms/liter DDT. When serum glucose and cortisol concentrations were quickly elevated, signs for exhaustion could be seen after 72 hr of exposure.	1	pesticide
4008864	Dermal absorption of pesticides calculated by deconvolution.	Using published human data on skin-to-urine and blood-to-urine transfer of 12 pesticides and herbicides, the skin-to-blood transfer rates for each compound were estimated by two numerical deconvolution techniques. Regular constrained deconvolution produced an estimated upper limit on cumulative dermal absorption of the radiolabel, while minimized deconvolution produced an upper bound on cumulative dermal absorption of parent compound. Dermal absorption rate was largest within 8 h of dosing for all pesticides examined. Only carbaryl showed a lag (3.5 h) in penetration. This may indicate a prolonged transit time through skin or a chemical transformation in skin has occurred. After onset, absorption occurred rapidly with 45% of the 120 h cumulative absorption occurring in 8 h. For parathion and dieldrin, over 50% of the 120 h total absorption occurred in the first 4 h. The deconvolution technique described here permits the calculation of the temporal aspect of dermal absorption for linear systems.	1	pesticide
4024447	Protective effect of activated charcoal in cattle poisoned with atrazine.	Six heifers were poisoned with a lethal dose of atrazine. Three animals were treated daily for 4 days with activated charcoal. The untreated animals died within 3 days, whereas the treated animals survived the 14-day observation period. Hematology, blood chemistry and pathology findings are reported.	1	pesticide
4049416	Differential cholinesterase inhibition and muscarinic receptor changes in CD-1 mice made tolerant to malathion.	The lethality of organophosphate (OP) cholinesterase (CHE) inhibitors is thought to result from depression of the respiratory center in the brain stem, constriction of and increased secretion by the airways, and paralysis of the respiratory musculature. While tolerance to the cholinergic toxicity of OPs has been well documented, such studies have not included investigations of the brain stem and extrapulmonary airways. In this report tolerance to the insecticide malathion is demonstrated. At 24 hr after 14 daily doses of malathion (400 mg/kg, ip), CHE activities were 27, 26, and 28% of control in striatum (ST), hippocampus (HI), and cortex (CX), respectively, while brain stem CHE activity was 41% of control. In addition, the numbers of muscarinic receptors (Bmax) decreased 30, 20, and 22% in ST, HI, and CX, respectively. In contrast, there was no change in brain stem Bmax. The lack of parallelism between CHE inhibition and Bmax effects in brain stem as compared to all other tissues tested raises questions as to the mechanism(s) by which the respiratory system adapts during repeated OP exposure.	1	pesticide
4092159	[Voluntary chloralose poisoning].	The authors report 114 cases of acute poisoning by rodenticides (chloralose). The clinical symptoms associate coma, myoclonic jerks and bronchorrhea. Metabolic acidosis is a common finding. Despite the initial gravity, the prognosis of chloralose intoxication is excellent, provided that a symptomatic treatment is instituted early.	1	pesticide
4998348	Resistance of Pseudomonas to quaternary ammonium compounds. II. Cross-resistance characteristics of a mutant of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	Tube dilution experiments showed that benzalkonium chloride (BC)-resistant mutants of Pseudomonas aeruginosa grown in the presence of 1,000 mug of BC per ml were at least 20 times more sensitive to polymyxin B and colistin sulfate than the BC-sensitive (BCS) parent strain. BCS cells selected for resistance to 500 mug of polymyxin B per ml remained sensitive to BC. There was little difference in the amount of carbenicillin, gentamicin sulfate, or rifampin needed to prevent growth of either the BCS or BC-resistant (BCR) strains. Growth of BCR cells was inhibited by ethylenediaminetetraacetate at a concentration of 400 mug/ml or less, whereas the BCS strain grew at ethylenediaminetetraacetate levels of 10,000 mug/ml. Phenylmercuric acetate and thimerosal inhibited growth of BCR and BCS cells at concentrations of 10 mug/ml or less. BCR cells were cross-resistant to >1,000 mug/ml concentrations of five other quaternary ammonium compounds, including three with C(16) alkyls and two with alkyl groups of shorter length. The BCS strain was also resistant to >1,000 mug/ml concentrations of the three quaternary ammonium compounds with C(16) alkyl groups but, in addition to BC, was inhibited by 200 mug/ml levels or less of the two quaternary ammonium compounds containing alkyl groups of less than 16 carbon atoms.	1	pesticide
5316852	Insecticide resistance resulting from sequential selection of houseflies in the field by organophosphorus compounds.	"Although cross-resistance in houseflies to the organophosphates has eliminated numerous potentially useful compounds from field use, the ""subgroup"" specificity of this phenomenon has permitted housefly control to be carried out for nearly a quarter of a century by changing from one toxicant to another within this class of insecticides. A question of considerable importance in insect control is whether the development of resistance to one subgroup of organophosphates will be at the expense of resistance to a subgroup applied previously. The development over several years of resistance in a field population selected sequentially by a number of organophosphates was studied. It was observed that the resistance spectrum expanded progressively to include, finally, organophosphates originally thought to belong to more than one subgroup-namely, malathion (resistance greater than 100 times), fenchlorphos (114 times), diazinon (163 times), coumaphos (greater than 100 times), Ciodrin (greater than 100 times), fenthion (18 times) and naled (9.3 times). Resistance to each compound continued to rise to levels considerably higher than those achieved at the time when the field use of the compound ended. The possible coexistence of subgroup cross-resistance in a population is discussed in the light of these results."	1	pesticide
5435496	Methylation of deoxyribonucleic acid in cultured mammalian cells by N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine. The influence of cellular thiol concentrations on the extent of methylation and the 6-oxygen atom of guanine as a site of methylation.	1. In neutral aqueous solution N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) yields salts of nitrocyanamide as u.v.-absorbing products. With cysteine, as found independently by Schulz & McCalla (1969), the principal product is 2-nitràminothiazoline-4-carboxylic acid. Both these reactions liberate the methylating species; thiols enhance the rate markedly at neutral pH values. An alternative reaction with thiols gives cystine, presumably via the unstable S-nitrosocysteine. 2. Thiols (glutathione or N-acetylcysteine) in vitro at about the concentration found in mammalian cells enhance the rate of methylation of DNA markedly over that in neutral solution. 3. Treatment of cultured mammalian cells with MNNG results in rapid methylation of nucleic acids, the extent being greater the higher the thiol content of the cells. Rodent embryo cells are more extensively methylated than mouse L-cells of the same thiol content. Cellular thiol concentrations are decreased by MNNG. Proteins are less methylated by MNNG than are nucleic acids. 4. Methylation of cells by dimethyl sulphate does not depend on cellular thiol content and protein is not less methylated than nucleic acids. Methylation by MNNG may therefore be thiol-stimulated in cells. 5. Both in vitro and in cells about 7% of the methylation of DNA by MNNG occurs at the 6-oxygen atom of guanine. The major products 7-methylguanine and 3-methyladenine are given by both MNNG and dimethyl sulphate, but dimethyl sulphate does not yield O(6)-methylguanine. Possible reaction mechanisms to account for this difference between these methylating agents and its possible significance as a determinant of their biological effects are discussed.	1	pesticide
6136149	The inhibitory effect of some chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticides on the ATP-dependent Ca2+ binding of the particulate fraction of the eggshell gland mucosa cells.	The pesticide p-p'-DDT and its persistent metabolite p-p'-DDE cause thinning of the eggshells in several species of birds. In earlier investigations on ducks this thinning was found to be associated with a reduction of the ATP-dependent Ca2+ binding to a homogenate of the shell gland mucosal cells by DDE. The activity of a Ca2+-Mg2+-activated ATPase in the homogenate was also decreased on administration of DDE in vivo. We have therefore investigated the in vitro effects of some other chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticides of ecotoxicological interest on the ATP-dependent Ca2+ binding and the Ca2+-Mg2+-activated ATPase activity in a homogenate of the eggshell gland mucosa of the hen and determined the molar concentrations that produced 50% inhibition (=IC50). Several of the investigated compounds, namely toxaphene, chlordane, p-p'-DDD, o-p'-DDE, p-p'-DDT, methoxychlor and PCB (Arochlor 1242), had a similar IC50 to inhibit the Ca2+ binding as p-p'-DDE. Lindane, p-p'-DDA and biphenyl had an IC50 3.3-4 times higher and that of 2.4 D was 13.5 times higher than that of p-p'-DDE. When the IC50 of some of the compounds (p-p'-DDE, PCB, toxaphene, Lindane) was determined that decreased the Ca2+-Mg2+-activated ATPase of the homogenate it was found to be only 18 to 29 per cent of that needed to inhibit the Ca2+ binding by the homogenate. It is therefore probable that some other effect than inhibition of this enzyme is also involved in the Ca2+-binding process and affected by the compounds.	1	pesticide
6153667	Persistence of chlorpyrifos in a mineral and an organic soil.	Chlorpyrifos (Lorsban emulsifiable concentrate) was applied at 3.4 kg AI/ha and incorporated into sand and muck soil contained in small field plots. Soil samples were taken at intervals over 2 yr. Radishes and carrots, seeded yearly, served as indicator crops for absorption of insecticide residues. Samples were extracted and analyzed, by gas-liquid chromatography, for chlorpyrifos, oxychlorpyrifos, and 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol. Chlorpyrifos residues declined rapidly, with 50% of the initial application remaining after 2 and 8 wk in sand and muck, respectively, and 4 and 9% after 1 yr. Pyridinol residues increased to 13 and 39% of the initial chlorpyrifos application in sand and muck after 1 and 8 wk, respectively, and declined thereafter. Oxychlorpyrifos was detected in the 2 soils at very low levels only in immediate posttreatment samples. In the first year of the study low levels (less than 0.1 ppm) of chlorpyrifos and the pyridinol were detected in radishes and carrots.	1	pesticide
6161768	Demonstration of major metabolic pathways for chlordecone (kepone) in humans.	The hypothesis that liver is the site of the previously demonstrated chlordecone alcohol formation in man was tested. Human bile obtained from chlordecone-poisoned factory workers contained substantial amounts of free chlordecone, but little free chlordecone alcohol. However, when the same bile specimens were pretreated with beta-glucuronidase before analysis by gas-liquid chromatography, large amounts of chlordecone alcohol appeared, accounting for 75% of total organochlorine compounds. Confirmation of the identity of chlordecone and chlordecone alcohol was made by using gas liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Whereas biliary chlordecone alcohol was present predominantly as its glucuronide conjugate (93%), chlordecone was excreted primarily as the unaltered compound (72%) with only a small portion conjugated with glucuronic acid (9%). The remaining fraction of the total chlordecone measured in bile appeared to be a stable polar metabolite resistant to beta-glucuronidase. This unidentified metabolite could be converted to free chlordecone only by acid hydrolysis under harsh conditions. In contrast to human bile, rat bile contained only trace amounts of chlordecone alcohol (less than 0.5% of total chlordecone), thus indicating that hepatic metabolism of chlordecone is species-specific. We conclude that in man, the major metabolic route for chlordecone is its reduction in the liver followed by glucuronidation.	1	pesticide
6201755	Neonatal chlordecone exposure impairs early learning and retention of active avoidance in the rat.	"The effect of neonatal exposure of rats to chlordecone on the acquisition and retention of active avoidance was investigated. Pups were trained and tested on one-way (preweaning) and/or two-way (post-weaning) active avoidance tasks. Offspring of Fischer-344 rats were administered 1 mg/pup of chlordecone (SC) dissolved in DMSO on postnatal day 4. Body weights were slightly, but significantly, depressed for chlordecone-exposed males (10-11%) and females (7-8%) during preweaning development. Post-weaning body weights were also slightly depressed by the chlordecone treatment (8% for the males, 7% for the females). For pups trained (day 18) on one-way (small to large compartment) active avoidance (OWA), chlordecone treatment increased the number of trials needed to attain the acquisition criterion; the effect was most pronounced in the males. A 72-hr retention test revealed a sex-dependent effect of chlordecone on response latency during the initial test trials. Acquisition of two-way avoidance (TWA) (days 28-30) was superior in female pups relative to males; chlordecone treatment significantly reduced this sex difference in pups which had prior or no prior OWA training. Perhaps most importantly, however, following prior OWA training, vehicle control pups demonstrated a directional bias to make an avoidance response from a small to a large compartment, whereas chlordecone-treated pups executed their avoidance responses in both directions at comparable rates. Similar evidence indicative of a selective retention deficit also characterized TWA performance when a ""reversal"" procedure was used. A final retention (extinction) session indicated that the chlordecone-treated pups made fewer responses than vehicle-treated controls during the test trials.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"	1	pesticide
6301995	Effect of the pesticide carbaryl on replication of human and simian varicella viruses.	Pretreatment of host cells with carbaryl delayed the early spread of simian and human varicella virus infections. Toward the end of the growth cycle there was an apparent enhancement of infection, since treated cultures showed more infectious centers than did untreated ones in which infectivity had reached maximum levels and then declined.	1	pesticide
6334113	Laboratory trials of five rodenticides for the control of Mesocricetus auratus Waterhouse.	The efficacy of five rodenticides for use in bait against the golden hamster (Mesocricetus auratus Waterhouse) was investigated in the laboratory. The species proved to be resistant to warfarin (up to 0.5%) and difenacoum (0.005%), but brodifacoum (0.005%) gave complete mortality after three days' feeding. Calciferol (0.1%), though toxic, was significantly unpalatable. Zinc phosphide (5.0%) presented in a choice test for two days against unpoisoned feed gave 100% mortality, and appears to be the most suitable of these compounds for the control of M. auratus in the field.	1	pesticide
6364457	Sublethal toxicity of malathion on the proteases and free amino acid composition in the liver of the teleost, Tilapia mossambica (Peters).	Exposure of fish to a sublethal concentration of malathion showed a significant inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity. The levels of protease were markedly elevated with a consequent increase in most of the free amino acids. However, the levels of glutamic acid and valine, phenylalanine and methionine complex remained unchanged, while aspartic acid showed a marked drop. These changes are discussed in relation to the sublethal stress induced by malathion.	1	pesticide
6418539	Pesticide-induced complete and partial chromosome loss in screens with repair-defective females of Drosophila melanogaster.	Commercial preparation of fungicides (captan and maneb), herbicides (bromacil, paraquat, picloram, and 2,4-D), and insecticides (carbaryl, chlorpyrifos, dimethoate, DDT, diazinon, carbofuran, and permethrin) were tested for their ability to induce complete and partial chromosome losses in Drosophila melanogaster males. In an attempt to identify the mutagenic activity of pesticides that are toxic in low concentrations in Drosophila, these males were mated with mus-302 repair-defective females. The rationale for this mating scheme is based on the repair of genetic damage in Drosophila sperm by maternal enzymes in the zygote, and on the reports that there may be increases in the frequency of recovery of chemically induced chromosome losses in crosses of treated males with mus-302 females. Verification of the sensitivity of this screen in this study came from significant increases in the frequency of chromosome loss induced by low concentrations of the positive controls, N-nitrosodimethylamine and methyl methanesulfonate. Of the 13 pesticides, the insecticide chlorpyrifos induced a significant amount of ring-X chromosome loss. No pesticide induced a significant increase in partial chromosome loss. These results are discussed in relation to the usefulness of repair-defective mutants in screens for genetic damage in Drosophila and other higher eukaryotes by chemicals that are toxic or cause sterility at low concentrations.	1	pesticide
6422586	Evaluation of acute toxicity of carbaryl and malathion to freshwater teleosts, Channa punctatus (Bloch) and Heteropneustes fossilis (Bloch).	Bioassay tests evaluated the acute toxicity of carbaryl (a carbamate) (50% wettable powder, W.P.), and malathion (50% E.C.) (an organophosphate) (50% emulsifiable concentrate; E.C.) by determining their LC50 and the acute toxic ranges for 24, 48 and 72, and 96-h exposure to Channa punctatus (Bl.) and Heteropneustes fossilis (Bl.). Regression equations and slope functions were determined for different time periods. The relative susceptibility of the fish, the relative toxicity, and the safe concentrations of these biocides were calculated on the basis of LC50 for 96 h. C. punctatus was found to be relatively more susceptible to both the compounds, while malathion was the more toxic of the two biocides.	1	pesticide
6449525	Human health effects of selected pesticides, chloroaniline derivatives.	The health effects of two pesticides, chlordimeform and propanil, are discussed. Chlordimeform and 2-methyl-4-chloroaniline, a major metabolite of chlordimeform, cause severe hemorrhagic cystitis in humans. In cats, however, only a mild effect on the bladder was noted. The herbicide propanil has produced chloracne in humans, and along with 3,4-dichloroaniline, hyperkeratosis in rabbits. The contaminants 3,4,3',4'-tetrachloroazobenzene and 3,4,3',4'-tetrachloroazoxybenzene are responsible for the chloracnegenic characteristics of propanil, 3,4-dichloroaniline, and methazole.	1	pesticide
6508289	Morphological and genetic effects of benomyl on polyploid brewing yeasts: isolation of auxotrophic mutants.	An enrichment procedure after ethyl methanesulfonate mutagenesis and exposure to the fungicide benomyl yielded mutants auxotrophic for several amino acids from two polyploid Saccharomyces spp. Benomyl treatment was found to have a marked morphological effect on polyploid Saccharomyces cerevisiae, causing cells to adopt a characteristic doublet cell morphology in which buds are nearly as large as the parent cells. Experiments in which nuclear division was monitored in benomyl-induced doublet cells by Giemsa nuclear staining demonstrated an unusual sequence of cytological events which culminated in the formation of binucleate parental and mononucleate bud components. The frequency of formation of doublet and binucleate parent cells was found to depend on the strain employed and the benomyl concentration administered.	1	pesticide
6525729	[Exceptional resistance of Malagasy plague-transmitting fleas to insecticides].	Two plague transmitting malagasy fleas S. fonquerniei and X. cheopis, caugh in the cities of Tananarive, Antsirabe-Betafo and Ampefy were tested in conformity with WHO standards. These two fleas were resistant to DDT, dieldrin and malathion, Moreover, X. cheopis from the cities of Tananarive and Antsirabe-Betafo were resistant fenitrothion and propoxur. It seems to be first description of simultaneous resistance to organochlorinated, organophosphorylated and carbamylated products. The authors discuss the causes of this exceptional phenomenon, and make some suggestions in order to obtain a better knowledge and understanding of this phenomenon.	1	pesticide
6527399	Acute diquat intoxication. Interest of its repeated determination in urine and the evaluation of renal proximal tubule integrity.	A 33-year old farmer ingested approximately 300 ml of a 20% solution of diquat along with about 80 mg flunitrazepam. The patient presented neurological (coma grade I), digestive (oro-pharyngeal erosions, ileus), hepatic (cytolysis), hematological (thrombopenia) and renal (tubular dysfunction) signs. Plasma creatinine did not exceed 1.22 mg/dl (upper normal value), but retinol binding protein level in urine (a marker of renal tubular dysfunction) reached a value of 337 mg/d (normal values less than 300 micrograms/d). Its level returned to normal value 18 days after the ingestion. Four hours after the poisoning, diquat level in blood amounted to 10.4 mg/l, but its level was below the detection limit (0.2 mg/l) 6 hours later. In urine, however, diquat was detected until day 13. The following therapy was applied: ventilation (FiO2:0.21), gastro-intestinal lavage, hemoperfusion, anti-oxidants and prolonged forced diuresis. The patient made an uneventful recovery. intestinal washout must be applied with caution since an ileus is a classical complication of diquat poisoning. Hemoperfusion was found to be of little value. The interest of prolonged application of forced diuresis is suggested by the detection of diquat in urine for about 2 weeks along with the presence of biological signs of renal tubular dysfunction.	1	pesticide
6624478	Effects of phenoxyherbicides and glyphosate on the hepatic and intestinal biotransformation activities in the rat.	The effects of phenoxyacid herbicides 2,4-D (2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid) and MCPA (4-chloro-2-methylphenoxyacetic acid), clofibrate, and glyphosate on hepatic and intestinal drug metabolizing enzyme activities were studied in rats intragastrically exposed for 2 weeks. The hepatic ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase activity increased about 2-fold with MCPA. Both 2,4-D and MCPA increased the hepatic epoxide hydrolase activity and decreased the hepatic glutathione S-transferase activity. MCPA also increased the intestinal activities of ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase and epoxide hydrolase. Glyphosate decreased the hepatic level of cytochrome P-450 and monooxygenase activities and the intestinal activity of aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase. Clofibrate decreased the hepatic activities of UDPglucuronosyltransferase with p-nitrophenol or methylumbelliferone as the substrate. Also 2,4-D decreased the hepatic activity of UDPglucuronosyltransferase with p-nitrophenol as the substrate. MCPA decreased the intestinal activities of UDPglucuronosyltransferase with either p-nitrophenol or methylumbelliferone as the substrate. The results indicate that phenoxyacetic acids, especially MCPA, may have potent effects on the metabolism of xenobiotics. Glyphosate, not chemically related to phenoxyacids, seems to inhibit monooxygenases. Whether these changes are related to the toxicity of these xenobiotics remains to be clarified in further experiments.	1	pesticide
6626247	Hypolipidemia and peroxisome proliferation induced by phenoxyacetic acid herbicides in rats.	Male Wistar rats were treated daily by gavage with two phenoxy herbicides, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D)(100-200 mg/kg body wt) and 4-chloro-2-methylphenoxyacetic acid (MCPA) (100-200 mg/kg body wt), and with the chemically different glyphosate N-phosphonomethyl glycine (300 mg/kg body wt) 5 days per week for 2 weeks. A hypolipidemic drug, clofibrate [ethyl-2-(4-chlorophenoxy)-2-methylpropionate], which is structurally related to phenoxy acids, was used as a positive control (200 mg/kg body wt). 2,4-D and MCPA had several effects similar to those of clofibrate: all three compounds induced proliferation of hepatic peroxisomes, decreased serum lipid levels, and increased hepatic carnitine acetyltransferase and catalase activities. 2,4-D and MCPA, but not clofibrate, decreased lipoprotein lipase activity in the adipose tissue to about a third of the control value but did not change the lipoprotein lipase activity in the heart muscle. The data suggest that these compounds cause hypolipidemia not by enhancing the storage of peripheral lipids in adipose tissue but by preferentially increasing lipid utilization in the liver. Glyphosate caused no peroxisome proliferation or hypolipidemia, suggesting that these effects are associated with the structural similarity between phenoxy acid herbicides and clofibrate.	1	pesticide
6642106	Unidirectional cross-tolerance between the carbamate insecticide propoxur and the organophosphate disulfoton in mice.	Previous studies have shown that subchronic treatment of mice with the organophosphate insecticide, disulfoton, or the carbamate insecticide, propoxur, leads to the development of tolerance to their toxicity. Tolerance to disulfoton was due to a decrease in the number of muscarinic cholinergic receptors, while tolerance to propoxur appeared to be due to an induction of hepatic microsomal enzymes. In the present study we investigated if cross-tolerance between disulfoton and propoxur would occur. Cross-tolerance was evaluated by measuring acute toxicities, cholinesterase and carboxylesterase inhibition and hypothermic and antinociceptive effects. Mice tolerant to propoxur were cross-tolerant to the hypothermic and anticholinesterase effects of disulfoton. Similarly, when mice were pretreated with the microsomal enzyme inducer, phenobarbital, the toxicity of disulfoton was decreased. Mice made tolerant to disulfoton were cross-tolerant to the organophosphate chlorpyrifos, but were more sensitive than controls to the toxicity of propoxur. The acute toxicity of the organophosphate malathion was also increased in disulfoton-tolerant mice. Propoxur is metabolized by mixed function oxidases and possibly by a carboxylesterase. While hepatic microsomal enzymes appeared to be unchanged in disulfoton-tolerant mice, brain and liver carboxylesterase activities were significantly inhibited. Pretreatment of mice with the specific carboxylesterase inhibitor triorthotolylphosphate is known to greatly potentiate the toxicity of malathion and also potentiated, to a lesser extent, the toxicity of propoxur.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)	1	pesticide
6658817	Toxicity of deltamethrin and cypermethrin to the larvae of the diamond-back moth, Plutella xylostella L.	Two photostable pyrethroids, deltamethrin and cypermethrin, were tested against fourth instar larvae of a susceptible (S) strain and a resistant (R) strain of Plutella xylostella L. by topical application. Both compounds were very effective against the S strain larvae (LD50 for deltamethrin = 0.0014 micrograms/larva, LD50 for cypermethrin = 0.0046 micrograms/larva, at 48 h). However, the R strain collected from the field was greater than 1600-fold resistant to deltamethrin and greater than 30 000-fold resistant to cypermethrin. Deltamethrin was poorly synergised with piperonyl butoxide in the S strain, but much stronger synergism was obtained in the R strain. The possible reasons for such high levels of resistance and the potential use of synergised pyrethroids in Plutella control programmes are discussed.	1	pesticide
6668611	Oxychlordane, HCS-3260, and nonachlor in birds: lethal residues and loss rates.	Oxychlordane reached lethal levels in birds given dietary dosages of HCS-3260 (70.75% cis-chlordane and 23.51% trans-chlordane) at 6 levels from 50 to 500 ppm. Oxychlordane ranged from 9.4 to 22.1 ppm in brains of cowbirds (Molothrus ater), grackles (Quiscalus quiscula), and red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) that died on dosage and from 1.3 to 4.8 ppm in sacrificed birds, providing a clear diagnostic separation. Among starlings (Sturnus vulgaris), however, oxychlordane ranged from 5.0 to 19.1 ppm in brains of birds that died, significantly lower than in the other species, and from 1.4 to 10.5 ppm in sacrificed birds, overlapping the levels in those that died. Lethal levels, therefore, begin near 5.0 ppm, as in a previous study in which oxychlordane itself was fed, but the data from starlings emphasizes the need for confirmatory necropsy findings in diagnosis of poisoning. Nonachlor had a very low order of toxicity, killing only 1 of 12 birds dosed at 100 ppm for 35 d; 3 others died and 1 was incapacitated during a short period of food deprivation. Lethal levels of oxychlordane were present in the brains of birds that died. Oxychlordane accumulated in the bodies of birds on dietary dosage of HCS-3260 in proportion to dosage and time, but did not approach equilibrium at the levels (10, 50, and 100 ppm) that were fed. Loss rates of oxychlordane from HCS-3260, oxychlordane, or technical chlordane dosages (the last in a previous study) did not differ significantly from each other; respective half-lives were 57, 63, and 74 d. Residues of cis-chlordane in birds fed HCS-3260 were consistently lower than oxychlordane during the accumulation period and declined abruptly when dosage ceased; individual variation was high.	1	pesticide
6701915	Malathion toxicity: in vivo inhibition of acetylcholinesterase in the fish Brachydanio rerio (Cyprinidae).	Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in the nervous tissue (brain) of the fish Brachydanio rerio was significantly inhibited by exposure to the organophosphorus (OP) pesticide, malathion. The inhibition was dose- as well as time-dependent. The fish survived even when the activity of the enzyme was inhibited by 90%. There was a significant recovery in the activity of AChE when malathion stress was lifted.	1	pesticide
6780991	Comparative evaluation of four registered acaricides for field control of northern fowl mites on caged laying hens.	Carbaryl and tetrachlorvinphos provided longer lasting control of northern fowl mites, Ornithonyssus sylviarum (Canestrini and Fanzago), than did coumaphos or malathion when the materials were applied to caged laying hens as aqueous sprays. The average duration of residual control was ca. 5 weeks for carbaryl, 4.3 weeks for tetrachlorvinphos, 3.5 weeks for coumaphos, and 2 weeks for malathion. No presumptive evidence of northern fowl mite resistance to carbaryl or tetrachlorvinphos was encountered. In contrast, malathion often failed to produce satisfactory control, and difficulty with adequate dispersion of coumaphos wettable powder was noted.	1	pesticide
6829031	An impurity of malathion alters the morphology of rat lung bronchiolar epithelium.	Oral administration of O,O,S-trimethyl phosphorothioate (OOS), an impurity in technical malathion, caused morphological changes in the bronchiolar epithelium of rat lungs. OOS-treated rat lungs had fewer but larger Clara (non-ciliated) cells than lungs from control rats given either corn oil or purified malathion. Moreover, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity in bronchopulmonary lavage fluid was significantly higher in OOS than in control rats. We interpret these data to mean that OOS, and/or its metabolite(s) causes a lesion in the lung. Because of the widespread agricultural use of technical malathion, future work should address the significance of our findings and the possible toxic effect of OOS on lung tissue.	1	pesticide
7064323	Field assessment of permethrin in the control of sheep headfly disease.	Three groups of sheep, gimmers, ewes with lambs and rams, were sprayed at fortnightly intervals from June to September 1980 with a 0.1 per cent emulsion of permethrin in an attempt to control damage caused by Hydrotaea irritans. Complete prevention of damage was not achieved but the number of sheep affected and the severity of lesions present in affected sheep was significantly reduced in comparison with untreated control groups. Permethrin treatment was also judged to be valuable in the management of rams with head wounds. Variation in susceptibility with age was noted, gimmers being the most severely affected and a breed variation was apparent in the rams which was related to the character of horn present.	1	pesticide
7175098	Observations on the influence of water and soil pH on the persistence of insecticides.	The pH-disappearance rate profiles were determined at ca. 25 degrees C for 24 insecticides at 4 or 5 pH values over the range 4.5 to 8.0 in sterile phosphate buffers prepared in water-ethanol (99:1 v/v). Half-lives measured at pH 8 were generally smaller than at lower pH values. Changes in half lives between pH 8.0 and 4.5 were largest (greater than 1000x) for the aryl carbamates, carbofuran and carbaryl, the oxime carbamate, oxamyl, and the organophosphorus insecticide, trichlorfon. In contrast, half lives of phorate, terbufos, heptachlor, fensulfothion and aldicarb were affected only slightly by pH changes. Under the experimental conditions described half lives at pH8 varied from 1-2 days for trichlorfon and oxamyl to greater than 1 year for fensulfothion and cypermethrin. Insecticide persistence on alumina (acid, neutral and basic), mineral soils amended with aluminum sulfate or calcium hydroxide to different pH values and four natural soils of different pH was examined. No correlation was observed between the measured pH of these solids and the rate of disappearance of selected insecticides applied to them. These observations demonstrate the difficulty of extrapolating the pH dependent disappearance behaviour observed in homogeneous solution to partially solid heterogeneous systems such as soil.	1	pesticide
7232257	Influence of glyphosate (N-(phosphonomethyl)glycine) on performance and selected parameters in broilers.	Glyphosate (N-phosphonomethyl)glycine), Roundup, the herbicide formulation of the isopropylamine salt of glyphosate, was fed to male and female broiler chickens at 0, 60.8, 608, and 6080 ppm from 1 day to 21 days of age. Parameters measured were body weights, bone weights and lengths, bone ash, inorganic phosphorus, calcium, magnesium, and calcium to phosphorus ratios of tibiotarsus bones. There were no consistent significant differences among the control, 60.8, or 608 ppm groups in any of the parameters measured. The addition of glyphosate to feed at the highest dose level (6080 ppm) reduced body weight approximately 50% in both sexes as early as 7 days of age, and this reduction continued for the rest of the experiment. The highest dose level increased the calcium and magnesium content of the tibiotarsus bones.	1	pesticide
7330625	Mortality study of workers employed at organochlorine pesticide manufacturing plants.	"A retrospective cohort study was conducted to examine the mortality of workers employed in the manufacture of the chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticides, chlordane, heptachlor, dichloro-diphenyl-trichloro-ethane (DDT) and aldrin/dieldrin/endrin. Four manufacturing plants were selected for study, and each cohort included all workers employed for at least six months prior to January 1964. The entire study group totaled approximately 2,100 individuals. Vital status ascertainment for these cohorts ranged from 90 to 97% complete; the cut-off date for follow-up was 31 December 1976. In general there were too few deaths in this study on which to draw any meaningful conclusions. The standardized mortality ratio (SMR) for all causes in each cohort was below the expected level (100) and ranged from 66 to 82, probably a reflection of the ""healthy worker effect."" For ""all malignant neoplasms"" the SMRs ranged from 68 to 91 and for respiratory cancer from 55 to 132. In the aldrin/dieldrin/endrin cohort observed deaths due to pneumonia and ""other respiratory diseases"" were significantly above the expected number of deaths. For several other specific cancer sites (stomach in plant 1, esophagus, rectum, liver and lymphatic/hematopoietic system in plant 3), the observed deaths were more than the expected number and should be examined in more detail. It is recommended that these cohorts be followed for several more years and the mortality patterns be reexamined."	1	pesticide
7342942	A survey for resistance in cattle ticks to acaricides.	A survey was made from late 1976 to late 1977 to determine the extent of resistance to acaricides in the cattle tick Boophilus microplus in Queensland. Questionnaires and requests for samples of ticks were forwarded to more than 900 randomly selected stock owners in the tick infested area which had been divided into 4 regions. Far North, Coastal North, Coastal Cental and South East. The response measured by the number of tick samples tested was 43%. The prevalence of resistance to organophosphorus (OP) compounds was highest in South East where 96% of the farms had OP-resistant ticks and 95% had the Biarra strain and lowest in Far North where 12% of the farms had OP-resistant ticks and 10% had the Biarra strain which was the predominant one in all regions. The highest percentages of the Ridgelands strain (35%) and the Tully strain (30%) occurred in Coastal North. The South East had the highest percentage of Mt Alford (30%). Although chlorinated hydrocarbons were banned for use in control of ticks in 1962, 49% of the farms in South East had some ticks resistant to dieldrin but in Far North it was only 2%. DDT-resistant ticks, which because of cross resistance to synthetic pyrethroids will affect the future use of this group, were present on 8% of the farms in both Coastal North and Coastal Central and 3% in South East and Far North. No resistance to the amidines, chlordimeform, chloromethiuron or amitraz was found.	1	pesticide
7350901	Cholinomimetics and memory. The effect of choline chloride.	Young normal subjects received 16 g of choline chloride in a double-blind A-B-A design. Short- and long-term memory function was evaluated. Comparison of group means indicated that choline chloride did not significantly affect short-term memory or long-term memory. However, individual subjects may have had some aspects of long-term memory affected by choline chloride treatments. The results suggest that the effect of lower doses of choline on long-term memory should be evaluated.	1	pesticide
7462594	Laboratory trials of seven rodenticides for use against the cotton rat (Sigmodon hispidus).	The efficacy of seven rodenticides for use against Sigmodon hispidus was investigated in the laboratory. The poisons (warfarin, coumatetralyl, difenacoum, brodifacoum, bromadiolone, calciferol and zinc phosphide) were all toxic at the concentrations normally used against Rattus rattus and R. norvegicus and all were palatable. Trials are now needed to confirm the efficacy of these poisons in the field, but it seems likely that, if used in suitable bait formulations, they would all be useful for the practical control of S. hispidus.	1	pesticide
7494817	A new method for estimating dermal absorption from chemical exposure. 3. Compared with steady-state methods for prediction and data analysis.	PURPOSE: This paper compares unsteady-state and steady-state methods for estimating dermal absorption or analyzing dermal absorption data. The unsteady-state method accounts for the larger absorption rates during short exposure times as well as the hydrophilic barrier which the viable epidermis presents to lipophilic chemicals. METHODS: Example calculations for dermal absorption from aqueous solutions are presented for five environmentally relevant chemicals with molecular weights between 50 and 410 and log10Kow between 0.91 and 6.8: chloromethane, chloroform, chlordane, 2,3,7,8-TCDD, and dibenz(a,h)anthracene. Also, the new method is used to evaluate experimental procedures and data analyses of in vivo and in vitro permeation measurements. RESULTS: In the five example cases, we show that the steady-state approach significantly underestimated the dermal absorption. Also, calculating permeability values from cumulative absorption data measured for exposure periods less than 18 times the stratum corneum lag time will overestimate the actual permeability. CONCLUSIONS: In general, steady-state predictions of dermal absorption will underestimate dermal absorption predictions which consider unsteady-state conditions. Permeability values calculated from data sets which include unsteady-state data will be incorrect. Strategies for analyzing in vitro diffusion cell experiments and confirming steady state are described.	1	pesticide
7501664	Environmental pollutants alter taste responses in the gerbil.	Taste and smell are chemical senses that play a crucial role in food selection. Damage to taste and smell receptors can impair food intake, nutritional status, and survival. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of 11 environmental pollutants (nine insecticides and two herbicides) on electrophysiological taste responses in the gerbil. Integrated chorda tympani (CT) recordings were obtained from gerbils to a range of tastants before and after a 4-min application of 1 of 11 environmental pollutants. The taste stimuli were: sodium chloride (100 mM), calcium chloride (300 mM), magnesium chloride (100 mM), HCl (10 mM), potassium chloride (500 mM), monosodium glutamate (MSG) (50 mM), sucrose (100 mM), fructose (300 mM), sodium saccharin (10 mM), quinine HCl (30 mM), and urea (2 M). The nine insecticides included organophosphorous, carbamate, and pyrethroid insecticides. The seven organophosphorous insecticides tested were: acephate, carbofuran, chlorpyrifos, chlorpyrifos oxon, demeton, malathion, and methamidophos. The carbamate insecticide carbaryl and the pyrethroid insecticide fenvalerate were also tested. Two herbicides, paraquat and glyphosate, were tested, and dose-response curves for each of these two herbicides were also determined. All of the 11 insecticides and herbicides had an effect on some of the taste stimuli tested. Application of 10 mM methamidophos exhibited the greatest amount of suppression on the 11 taste solutions. Each taste stimulus was significantly suppressed with the exception of 2 M urea. Herbicides paraquat and glyphosate also reduced responses to several tastants. These data indicate that environmental pollutants can modify taste responses in the gerbil.	1	pesticide
7525225	Atrazine toxicity on hydromineral balance of fish, Tilapia mossambicus.	The chronic effects of atrazine on total body weight, hydration level, and serum inorganic electrolytes in the tissues of freshwater fish, Tilapia mossambicus, were studied. Significant changes were observed in the tissues indicating the disturbances in the hydromineral balance of the fish as a consequence of atrazine.	1	pesticide
7529165	Influence of different factors on the adsorption of carbofuran (2, 3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl-N-methyl carbamate) on soils.	The effects of exchangeable cations (H+ and Na+), autoclaving, organic matter, cationic and anionic surfactants, and temperature on the adsorption of carbofuran on two different types of soils were studied. The adsorption isotherms for all effects/treatments were in close agreement with the Freundlich equation and yielded S-shaped isotherms. The amount of carbofuran adsorbed in all cases was higher in Jhansi red loam soil than in Pilibhit sandy loam soil and was related to organic matter content, clay content, CaCO3 content, surface area, and cation-exchange capacity of the soils. The adsorption on soils from both sites follows the order H soil-->Na soil-->natural soil at 25 degrees C-->autoclaved soil-->soil from which organic matter had been removed-->cationic surfactant-->anionic surfactant-->natural soil at 50 degrees C and was in accordance with Freundlich constant K values and distribution coefficient Kd values. The adsorptive capacity of carbofuran for organic matter and clay content for both the Jhansi and the Pilibhit soils was also evaluated by calculating Kom and Kc values, and it was found that the carbofuran adsorption was better correlated with clay content than with organic matter content of soils. On the basis of adsorption isotherms, various thermodynamic parameters such as the thermodynamic equilibrium constant Ko, standard free energy (delta G zero) changes standard ethalpy (delta H zero) changes, and standard entropy (delta S zero) changes have been calculated in order to predict the nature of isotherms.	1	pesticide
7540311	A method evaluating population risks from chemical exposure: a case study concerning prohibition of chlordane use in Japan.	The proposed method evaluating population risks from chemical exposure is based on estimation of the individual variabilities in the internal concentration of the chemical of concern and estimation of the magnitude of toxic effect caused at a given internal concentration. We assume a log-normal distribution for individual variability and propose loss of life expectancy (LLE) as a measure of the magnitude of toxic effects. We applied it to the evaluation of the governmental action of prohibiting the use of chlordane as a termiticide in Japan. Because the method is applicable to both carcinogenic and noncarcinogenic chemicals, the cancer risk due to chlordane and the noncancer risk due to chlorpyrifos, a major substitute, were evaluated and compared. The estimated values of risk represented in terms of LLE are 0.10 days for residents of untreated houses, 1.9 days for residents of treated houses, and 4.4 days for termite control workers when chlordane is used, and 0, 2.8, and 31 days when chlorpyrifos is used, respectively. From the result of the case study, we can see that the prohibition of chlordane is not necessarily effective in reducing risk.	1	pesticide
7540533	The effects of a chronic application of chlorpyrifos on the macroinvertebrate fauna in an outdoor artificial stream system: species responses.	An outdoor artificial stream system was used to examine the effects of a chronic application of the organophosphate pesticide chlorpyrifos on the invertebrate fauna of the system. Two replicate streams received chlorpyrifos for 21 days at the high dose (5 micrograms.liter-1) or low dose (0.1 microgram.liter-1) or only the carrier solution with which chlorpyrifos is mixed for commercial sale (1,1,1-trichloroethane and xylene). Streams behaved as replicates with respect to five water quality parameters. Seventy-four nonchironomid and 24 chironomid taxa were recorded during the study. The number of taxa and total invertebrate abundance were significantly reduced by both high and low doses of the pesticide. Shannon-Weaver diversity was also reduced by both high and low doses of the pesticide whereas evenness increased in high dose streams. The individual abundances of 9/36 nonchironomid and 13/19 chironomid taxa were significantly reduced by pesticide application; the abundance of one taxon, the gastropod Physastra, increased. The biomass of periphyton in the streams was affected by changes in the abundance of chironomid grazers and Physastra, and the slow recovery of grazers from mortality due to chlorpyrifos appeared to result in a higher biomass of periphyton in the high dose streams than in controls and low dose streams 21 days after dosing ceased. Inverse relationships between the amounts of fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) and the sum of the numbers of all taxa of collector-gatherers (as well as numbers of four individual taxa) were interpreted as disruption of the processing of FPOM by members of this trophic group following toxic effects of chlorpyrifos. The implications of the study for biological monitoring of the direct and indirect effects of chronic doses of chlorpyrifos on streams are discussed, and the use of chironomid larvae and periphyton in biomonitoring to detect pesticide impacts is particularly recommended.	1	pesticide
7548951	Anopheles arabiensis and An. gambiae chromosomal inversion polymorphism, feeding and resting behaviour in relation to insecticide house-spraying in Tanzania.	Differential responses of the mosquitoes Anopheles arabiensis and An. gambiae sensu stricto to house-spraying with DDT or lambda-cyhalothrin were evaluated in relation to chromosomal inversion polymorphism, feeding and resting behaviour of these malaria vectors in Tanzania. Blood-fed mosquitoes from pit traps outdoors, exit traps on windows and indoor-resting catches were identified cytogenetically and the chromosomal inversion frequencies compared between samples and species. Their outdoor-resting behaviour was assessed by a mark-release-recapture experiment and by determining the proportion of freshly blood-fed individuals in exit traps. The source of bloodmeals was analysed by an ELISA method. Endophagic females of An. arabiensis were more likely than those of An.gambiae to exit from a house on the night of blood-feeding. Only in one out of three villages was there evidence that chromosomally distinct individuals within a species had different preferences for resting sites. There were indications, but not conclusive evidence, that mosquitoes caught indoors or outdoors had a tendency to return to the same type of resting site. In villages sprayed with either insecticide, the mean age of the vector populations was greatly reduced, compared with those in the unsprayed villages. An.arabiensis females exited from DDT sprayed houses after blood-feeding, whereas with lambda-cyhalothrin those exiting were mostly unfed and there was a decline in the human blood index. The excitorepellency of DDT was perceived as a disadvantage, whereas lambda-cyhalothrin apparently had more impact on malaria transmission by An.arabiensis.	1	pesticide
7565891	Herbicide-induced DNA damage in human lymphocytes evaluated by the single-cell gel electrophoresis (SCGE) assay.	The genotoxicity of the herbicides, alachlor, atrazine, maleic hydrazide, paraquat and trifluralin has been evaluated in the single-cell gel electrophoresis (SCGE) assay by using human peripheral blood lymphocytes. All treatments were conducted with and without the presence of an external bioactivation source (S9 mix). The results indicate that all the herbicides tested are able to give positive results by increasing the comet tail length, which would confirm both the genotoxicity of the herbicides and the sensitivity of the assay in front of these chemicals. Alachlor and atrazine give similar results in treatments with and without S9, while when the S9 mix was not used paraquat and trifluralin genotoxicity was higher. On the other hand, although maleic hydrazide genotoxicity was higher when S9 mix was used at normal pH (7.4), our data show that its genotoxicity depends largely on the pH solution, increasing as the pH decreased.	1	pesticide
7567143	Paraquat and diquat interference in the analysis of creatinine by the Jaffé reaction.	Paraquat and diquat were shown to interfere significantly in the measurement of plasma creatinine by the alkaline picrate (Jaffé) reaction in a young man who ingested a massive dose of a mixture of the 2 herbicides. It is likely that these bipyridylium compounds react in a manner similar but at different rates compared with creatinine in the Jaffé reaction.	1	pesticide
7601496	Susceptibility status of two species of Japanese encephalitis vectors to insecticides in the Thar desert, district Bikaner (Rajasthan).	Susceptibility tests were conducted on the adults of two species of Japanese encephalitis vectors viz., Culex pseudovishnui and C. tritaeniorhynchus against diagnostic doses of DDT, dieldrin, malathion, fenitrothion, propoxur and permethrin at different exposure duration. C. pseudovishnui was found susceptible to permethrin and resistant to dieldrin and propoxur while C. tritaeniorhynchus was found susceptible to permethrin and resistant to DDT, dieldrin, fenitrothion and propoxur. A verification, however, was required with other insecticides for both the species.	1	pesticide
7616191	Field evaluation of alphacypermethrin and lambda-cyhalothrin against Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus in Malaysia.	Alphacypermethrin (Fendona) and lambda-cyhalothrin (Icon) were evaluated against sentinel bloodfed adults and 4th-instar larvae of Aedes aegypti in a housing estate in Malaysia. The impact of both pyrethroids on field populations of Ae. aegypti and Aedes albopictus were monitored weekly using oviposition trap samples. Both alphacypermethrin and lambda-cyhalothrin showed adulticidal and larvicidal effects.	1	pesticide
7631489	Effects of endosulfan and amitraz on feedlot performance, carcass yield and meat quality characteristics of Nubian goats.	The pesticides endosulfan and amitraz were fed to 2 groups of Nubian goats (3 goats/group) at 5 mg/kg/d for 36 d to assess their effects on feedlot performance, carcass yield and meat quality. Growth rates, weight gains and feed conversion efficiencies were depressed insignificantly. The endosulfan-dosed group had significantly lower dressing-out percentage and both groups had significant depletions of omental and mesenteric fats. Significant reductions were also seen on body and cavity fats, the latter being severely reduced suggesting more mobilization of cavity fat than body fat. The fat-free body was homogenous with variations in the muscle/bone ratio reflected on carcass cuts. Meat quality was unaffected. Fat was the only chemical component of endosulfan-dosed total lean significantly reduced. In all parameters the effects of endosulfan were more pronounced than those of amitraz.	1	pesticide
7688273	Chlorpyrifos metabolites in serum and urine of poisoned persons.	Concentrations of parent pesticide and corresponding diethylphosphorus metabolites in blood serum and urine were investigated in persons who had ingested a concentrated solution of organophosphorus pesticide chlorpyrifos. The organophosphate poisoning was indicated by a significant depression of blood cholinesterase (EC 3.1.1.7 and EC 3.1.1.8) activities. Blood and spot urine samples were collected daily after admission of the persons to hospital. Chlorpyrifos was detected only in serum samples in a period up to 15 days after poisoning. In the same samples chlorpyrifos oxygen analogue, chlorpyrifos oxon, was not detected. The presence of diethylphosphorothioate in all serum and urine samples confirmed that part of chlorpyrifos was hydrolysed before its oxidation. The maximum concentrations of chlorpyrifos in serum and of metabolites in serum and urine were measured on the day of admission. The decrease in concentrations followed the first-order kinetics with the initial rate constant faster and the later one slower. In the faster elimination phase chlorpyrifos was eliminated from serum twice as fast (t1/2 = 1.1-3.3 h) as the total diethylphosphorus metabolites (t1/2 = 2.2-5.5 h). The total urinary diethylphosphorus metabolites in six chlorpyrifos poisoned persons were excreted with an average elimination half-time of 6.10 +/- 2.25 h (mean +/- S.D.) in the faster and of 80.35 +/- 25.8 h in the slower elimination phase.	1	pesticide
7696689	Pyrethroid resistance in Australian field populations of the sheep body louse, Bovicola (Damalinia) ovis.	Synthetic pyrethroid (SP) resistance has developed in Australian field populations of the sheep body louse, Bovicola (Damalinia) ovis. Laboratory bioassays were used to measure the susceptibility of lice to cypermethrin and the other registered SPs. Results of these bioassays indicated resistance to cypermethrin, deltamethrin, cyhalothrin and alphacypermethrin. So far, high-level resistance has been diagnosed in only a few strains. The toxicological responses of these strains were clearly separated from those of the majority of louse strains tested. Furthermore, these strains had survived immersion in commercial SP dips. The level of resistance described in some strains was sufficient to cause pour-on products to fail despite the fact that the LC50s of these strains fell within the normal range of field responses.	1	pesticide
7709034	Experimental metolachlor toxicosis in Nubian goats in the Sudan.	Six out of 15 Nubian goats kids were given single oral doses of metolachlor (Dual 720 EC) at 2,000 or 500 mg/kg liveweight and died within 1 h of the dosing. Other 6 goats were given daily oral doses at 200 or 25 mg/kg and died or were slaughtered between days 8 and 25. In goats receiving single doses, the signs of poisoning were convulsive episodes, incoordination of movement, tremors, severe muscular spasms, stiffness, profuse salivation, respiratory distress, abnormal posture and recumbency. In goats receiving metolachlor at daily doses, the signs were similar, but developed slowly. Increases in the activities of serum AST and GGT and in the concentration of urea, and decreases in total protein concentration were correlated with clinical changes and lesions.	1	pesticide
7728906	The incorporation of radiolabelled sulphur from captan into protein and its impact on a DNA binding study.	Repeated administration of high doses of captan is known to produce tumours specifically in the duodenum of mice. Captan is not carcinogenic in the rat. In this study, DNA purified from the liver, stomach, duodenum and jejenum of mice dosed with 35S radiolabelled captan was found to contain radioactivity equivalent to Covalent Binding Indices in the range 38-91; that from the bone marrow had a CBI of 2.8. The distribution of radioactivity between the various tissues did not reflect the target organ specificity of captan. Attempts to further purify the DNA samples using caesium chloride gradients resulted in partial separation of the radioactivity from the DNA suggesting that covalent binding to the DNA may not have occurred. A study of the chemical breakdown of captan showed that captan is unstable, producing a variety of potentially reactive species containing sulphur. Evidence was further obtained to show that the sulphur of captan is incorporated into endogenous amino acids and protein. Hepatic DNA from mice dosed with 35S radiolabelled N-acetylcysteine, and two thiazolidine derivatives which are analogous to known metabolites of captan, was radiolabelled to a similar extent to that from captan treated mice. Furthermore, the DNA from each of these treatments had similar properties on caesium chloride gradients. It was concluded that the radioactivity associated with DNA in the captan DNA binding study was present in the low levels of protein which are always associated with purified DNA samples.	1	pesticide
7771600	The effectiveness of insecticide-impregnated bed nets in reducing cases of malaria infection: a meta-analysis of published results.	The use of insecticide-impregnated bed nets to minimize human-vector contact may reduce the incidence of malaria. Consequently, several field trials have evaluated their effectiveness as a malaria prevention strategy. A meta-analysis of published reports of field trials that measured the incidence of infections was performed to provide a measure of the effectiveness of insecticide-treated bed nets in preventing clinical malaria. Subsetted analyses were performed on the 10 field trials to calculate pooled incidence rate ratios of infection among the study groups. For the studies comparing insecticide-impregnated bed nets with untreated bed nets, the summary incidence rate ratio for acquiring malarial infections was 0.757 (95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.612-0.938), representing a reduction of 24%. For the studies comparing permethrin-impregnated bed nets with controls without bed nets, the summary incidence rate ratio was 0.497 (95% CI = 0.417-0.592) (Rothman-Boice heterogeneity statistics = 17.27 [P = 0.004] and 23.55 [P = 0.0003], respectively). These data suggest that insecticide-impregnated bed nets are effective in preventing malaria, decreasing the incidence rate ratio by approximately 50% in field trials performed to date.	1	pesticide
7777920	Comparative susceptibility of Periplaneta americana (L) to five pyrethroid insecticides.	Five pyrethroids namely, lambda-cyhalothrin, permethrin, deltamethrin, cyfluthrin and alpha-cypermethrin were evaluated using adult male and female cockroaches, Periplaneta americana (L). The American cockroaches were exposed for 10 minutes to glass jars treated with different concentrations of the five pyrethroids. The cockroaches were susceptible to all five pyrethroids and the susceptibility based on LC50 and LC50 were observed to be in the following order: lambda-cyhalothrin > permethrin > deltamethrin > cyfluthrin > alpha-cypermethrin The results showed that lambda-cyhalothrin was the most effective and alpha-cypermethrin was the least effective against Periplaneta americana (L).	1	pesticide
7819767	Full scan confirmation of tetrahydrophthalimide in whole milk using gas chromatography/ion trap mass spectrometry.	The determination of tetrahydrophthalimide (THPI) in whole milk extracts by gas chromatography/ion trap mass spectrometry (GC/ITMS) in the full-scan, electron impact (EI) mode is presented. THPI is first isolated from whole milk by a procedure including protein precipitation, liquid-liquid partitioning, and 2 solid-phase extraction (SPE) cleanup steps. GC/ITMS in the EI mode is used for the determinative step. The average recovery of THPI at fortification levels ranging from 5 to 54 ppb was 85.6% (n = 16, coefficient of variation = 9.13%). Full-scan mass spectral confirmation of THPI in milk extracts was obtained at the 5 ppb fortification level. The limit of detection was estimated to be 0.5 ppb. Chemical ionization also was used for THPI determination in whole milk extracts. The simultaneous isolation and determination of captan and captofol in whole milk are also discussed.	1	pesticide
7871535	Toxic interactions between fungicides that inhibit ergosterol biosynthesis and phosphorothioate insecticides in the male rat and bobwhite quail (Colinus virginianus).	The potential for toxic interactions between ergosterol biosynthesis-inhibiting fungicides (EBIFs), used in U.S. agriculture or clinically, and phosphorothioate insecticides was assessed in adult male rats and adult male bobwhite quail (Colinus virginianus) by measuring inhibition of plasma butyryl cholinesterase (BChE) following fungicide and insecticide treatment. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (300 g) were administered corn oil or the following EBIFs: propiconazole (400 mg/kg/day), vinclozolin (400 mg/kg/day), clotrimazole (100 mg/kg/day), or ketoconazole (100 mg/kg/day) for 3 days by oral gavage. Forty-eight hours following the final dose, a single bolus of parathion (0.4 mg/kg in corn oil) or malathion (150 mg/kg in corn oil) or corn oil alone was given po. The rats were terminated 12 hr following parathion or 4 hr following malathion dosing. Significant (p < 0.05) inhibition of BChE was observed with parathion and malathion only following clotrimazole treatment. In contrast, when a similar experiment was performed in bobwhite quail dosed with 12 mg/kg malathion following EBIF treatment, significant BChE inhibition was observed following treatment with vinclozolin or ketoconazole, but not with propiconazole or clotrimazole. Induction of cytochrome P450 in rat and quail liver by EBIFs was accompanied by enhanced oxidative desulfuration of malathion, parathion, and diazinon to toxic oxon products. Increased detoxication via oxidative dearylation/esterolytic clevage also occurred. However, while enhanced acute in vivo insecticide toxicity was observed in both species with a number of EBIF-phosphorothioate combinations, EBIF-induced oxidative activation of phosphorothioates by liver microsomes in vitro was not a good predictor of this effect.	1	pesticide
7883312	Evaluation of susceptibility status of Culex quinquefasciatus larvae to few organophosphorus insecticides based on logistic regression analysis.	A laboratory trial was carried out at Pune to evaluate the effectiveness of five types of larvicides viz. Malathion, Temephos, Fenthion, Dichlorvos and Fenitrothion against Culex quinquesfasciatus larvae. The expected number of mortality at various dose levels for the five types of insecticides were estimated separately using logistic regression model. Based on the fitted model, the estimated dose level corresponding to the 90 percent mortality (LC90) was obtained for each insecticide. Approximate 95 percent confidence intervals for the LC90 dose, in each case, has been provided. The analysis revealed that out of all the five types of insecticides included in the study, fenthion was the most effective. The estimated value of LC90 in this case was the lowest and is equal to 0.007 mg/L. The effectiveness of temephos, dichlorvos and fenitrothion was found to be approximately same and malathion was the least effective. The results were found to be comparable with that obtained under probit method.	1	pesticide
7903603	Enhancement of altered hepatic foci in rat liver and inhibition of intercellular communication in vitro by the pyrethroid insecticides fenvalerate, flucythrinate and cypermethrin.	Male Sprague-Dawley rats dosed with N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) 24 h after two-thirds partial hepatectomy were treated with the pyrethroid insecticides fenvalerate, flucythrinate or cypermethrin in the diet for 20 weeks. Altered hepatic foci were analyzed by quantitative stereology from paraffin-embedded sections stained for gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT) or glutathione S-transferase P (GST-P). The present results demonstrate that the pyrethroids tested all enhance the development of NDEA-initiated, GGT-positive foci in rat liver at non-hepatotoxic doses. On the contrary, the volume fractions of GST-P-positive foci were not elevated as compared to the control group. The three pyrethroids tested all inhibited the transfer of Lucifer Yellow CH between WB-F344 rat liver epithelial cells in culture, supporting the increase of GGT-positive foci and suggesting that these substances can act as tumour promoters. The discrepancy between the results from analyses using GGT or GST-P as markers emphasizes the importance of understanding the mechanism underlying the expression of different markers for preneoplastic lesions and the importance of such effects in tumour promotion.	1	pesticide
7905383	Characterization of cytochrome P-450 2B6 in human liver microsomes.	A cytochrome P-450 (P-450) enzyme of the CYP2B subfamily was partially purified from human liver microsomes and characterized with respect to immunochemical properties, N-terminal amino acid sequence, and catalytic activities toward typical P-450 substrates. P-450 enzymes were monitored in chromatographic fractions by immunoblotting analysis using antibodies raised against a monkey P-450 2B, as well as several purified human P-450 enzymes. The final P-450 2B preparation thus obtained was contaminated with P-450 3A4, but an N-terminal amino acid sequence matching the sequence predicted from the CYP2B6 cDNA was obtained. The apparent M(r) of this protein was 48 kDa, and the migration on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was the same as that of the P-450 2B6 protein expressed in a human lymphoblast cell line. Immunoblotting analysis of 50 human liver samples revealed that the protein band considered to be P-450 2B6 was detected in only 12 samples, with four of these having relatively high levels. Several activities toward typical P-450 substrates were determined in a reconstituted monooxygenase system containing partially purified P-450 2B6 and compared with those obtained using a highly purified preparation of P-450 3A4 enzyme; we found that most of the activities were similar in these preparations, except that the partially purified P-450 2B6 showed high rates of activation of the mutagens 6-aminochrysene and 3-methoxy-4-aminoazobenzene to genotoxic metabolites in Salmonella typhimurium NM2009 strain.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)	1	pesticide
7932197	Effect of selenium deficiency and glutathione-modulating agents on diquat toxicity and lipid peroxidation in rats.	The dipyridyl herbicide diquat undergoes redox cycling in vivo resulting in superoxide generation. Diquat administration causes hepatic and renal toxicity in rodents. Selenium deficiency worsens this injury and lipid peroxidation is a prominent feature of the toxicity. However, there is limited data regarding the role of lipid peroxidation in diquat-induced toxicity in selenium-adequate animals. In addition, little is known about the effect of glutathione-modulating agents on diquat-induced toxicity and lipid peroxidation in vivo. F2-isoprostanes are novel prostanoids which, both free in plasma and esterified to phospholipids in tissues, are markers of lipid peroxidation in vivo. By using F2-isoprostane quantitation, we examined the effects of selenium deficiency and modulation of glutathione status with 1,3-bis (2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea, phorone or buthionine sulfoximine on diquat-induced toxicity and lipid peroxidation. F2-isoprostanes increased 2- to 9-fold in plasma, liver, kidney and lung in selenium-adequate Fischer 344 rats with liver injury after receiving 100 mumol of diquat per kg. Selenium deficiency or modulation of glutathione status increased diquat toxicity. This was accompanied by 10- to 100-fold increases in plasma and kidney F2-isoprostane levels. Liver F2-isoprostanes were increased 2- to 5-fold. These studies suggest that glutathione, in addition to selenium, is an important defense against diquat-induced toxicity and lipid peroxidation.	1	pesticide
7966439	Cholinergic and noncholinergic changes in skeletal muscles by carbofuran and methyl parathion.	The objective of this investigation was to determine the distribution of cholinergic (acetyl-cholinesterase, AChE) and noncholinergic markers in slow-, fast-, and mixed-fiber containing muscles (soleus, SOL; extensor digitorum longus, EDL; and diaphragm, DIA, respectively). Noncholinergic markers included high-energy phosphates (adenosine triphosphate, ATP; phosphocreatine, PCr; and their metabolites), and the activity of creatine kinase (CK) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and their isoenzymes and subforms. All three types of muscles had only one CK isoenzyme, CK-MM, which totally consisted of MM3 subform. Levels of these determinants were highest in EDL followed by DIA and least in SOL. Another objective was to determine alterations of these markers under the influence of acute carbofuran (1.5 mg/kg) or methyl parathion (MPTH, 5 mg/kg) toxicity. Rats receiving either insecticide showed cholinergic signs with maximal severity including muscle fasciculations and convulsions within 15-30 min that lasted for about 2 h. At 1 h postinsecticide injection, when AChE was maximally inhibited (81-96%), significant depletion of ATP and PCr was evident in muscles (DIA > SOL > EDL), and activities of CK-MM and LDH were elevated in muscles and consequently in serum. Serum CK-MM3 activity was markedly reduced with sequential increase in MM2 and MM1 subforms, probably due to induced higher carboxypeptidase activity. These findings suggested that (1) the differences in levels of biochemical constituents in muscles depend upon the fiber type, (2) anticholinesterase insecticide-induced increased muscle activity produces characteristic changes in CK and LDH isoenzymes patterns, and (3) leakage of these enzymes/isoenzymes into serum is due to depletion of ATP and PCr, which are required to maintain the cell membrane permeability.	1	pesticide
8006454	Cytokine induction in human epidermal keratinocytes exposed to contact irritants and its relation to chemical-induced inflammation in mouse skin.	In response to exogenous stimuli such as phorbol-12-myristate 13-acetate, ultraviolet B radiation, and lipopolysaccharide, human keratinocytes produce soluble mediators that are important in primary contact irritancy including cytokines that are associated with proinflammatory properties (interleukin-1 alpha [IL-1 alpha], tumor necrosis factor alpha), chemotaxis (IL-8), and growth activation (granulocyte/macrophage colony stimulating factor, IL-6, transforming growth factor alpha). We examined qualitative and quantitative changes in selected intracellular and secreted cytokines in human keratinocyte cultures in response to non-sensitizing contact irritants (croton oil, sodium lauryl sulfate, methyl salicylate, ethyl phenylpropiolate), sensitizing irritants (oxazolone, dinitrofluorobenzene), and ulcerative agents (phenol, benzalkonium chloride, chromium trioxide). The chemicals were also applied to mouse skin to assess whether the chemical-specific pattern of inflammation correlated with the in vitro production of keratinocyte-derived cytokines. Although all agents elicited neutrophils to the site of chemical application, time dependent and chemical-specific patterns of inflammation could be detected. Sodium lauryl sulfate, phenol, and croton oil induced increases in IL-8 production at non-cytotoxic concentrations in semi-confluent human keratinocyte cultures. Phenol and croton oil stimulated tumor necrosis factor alpha production, whereas croton oil was the only agent found to induce granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor production. Croton oil, phenol, benzalkonium chloride, and dinitrofluorobenzene induced the intracellular production of IL-1 alpha without a concomitant release into the medium. The release of cytokines occurred in parallel with a relative increase in cytokine-specific mRNA transcripts. Studies using neutralizing antibodies to tumor necrosis factor alpha and IL-1 alpha demonstrated that IL-8 induction by croton oil and phenol occurred directly rather than through autocrine circuits. These data suggest that a given pattern of cytokine production is chemical-specific and may predict the contribution of keratinocytes to skin inflammation.	1	pesticide
8012228	Packed-column gas chromatographic method for the simultaneous determination of 10 pyrethroid insecticide residues in fruits, vegetables, and grains.	A simple, rapid, packed-column gas chromatographic method was developed for simultaneous determination of 10 pyrethroid insecticide residues (allethrin, biphenthrin, cyhalothrin, permethrin, cyfluthrin, flucythrinate, fenvalerate, fluvalinate, deltamethrin, and py-115) in fruits, vegetables, and grains. These multiresidues are extracted from various crops with acetone-petroleum ether and cleaned up on a Florisil column (for the fruits and vegetables) or on a Florisil-charcoal-alumina column (for the grains) prior to their determination by gas chromatography with an electron capture detector. Recoveries of 10 pyrethroid compounds from 12 different crops (maize, soybeans, wheat, sorghums, paddy, potatoes, cucumbers, cauliflowers, spinaches, apples, bananas, and oranges) fortified at levels of 0.02-5.00 ppm ranged from 58 to 130%. In a separate precision study, coefficients of variation were 5.5-14.6% at 0.1-0.5 ppm (n = 10, maize), and 4.1-12.1% at 0.010-0.050 ppm (n = 10, apples). The detection limits of the method ranged from 2.0 to 10.0 ppb on a crop basis.	1	pesticide
8026753	An aroA homologue from Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803.	In this study, we report the entire nucleotide sequence of an aroA homologue encoding 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase (EPSPS), isolated from the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. The proposed coding region is an open reading frame of 447 amino acids. The deduced sequence of the gene product is particularly similar to the Gram+ EPSPS sequences available to date, in particular to that in Bacillus subtilis. Analysis of the Synechocystis putative EPSPS sequence does not lead to an obvious explanation for the natural tolerance of this cyanobacterium to glyphosate.	1	pesticide
8066969	Chronic health effects among sheep and humans surviving an aldicarb poisoning incident.	Aldicarb is a granular carbamate insecticide, acaricide and nematocide applied to soil. In 1989, a large scale aldicarb poisoning of grazing sheep occurred in south central Washington State. Among 1600 animals in 3 different groups, 288 of 318 sheep in 1 group died within a very short time. An investigation by the Washington State Department of Agriculture concluded that aldicarb poisoning was the cause of the acute sheep deaths. Within 3 w of the incident, all the 30 sheep which survived the initial exposure from the 1 group had died or were near death and euthanized. Among the approximately 1300 sheep nearby but not affected by the acute incident, low fertility and poor health were apparent over the next 3 y. These sheep also suffered more deaths than expected, and lambs born to the sheep had a higher frequency of limb and gastrointestinal malformations than usual. All of the 6 men present in the field the day of the acute sheep deaths complained of acute symptoms. Three men were hospitalized the night of the sheep deaths and 2 were seen by a physician the next day. All men were healthy prior to the sheep deaths. Within a few days 4 of the 6 men developed a productive cough and 1 reported right-sided abdominal pain. Three years after the incident 5 of the men were still seeking medical attention or reporting symptoms they felt associated with the acute exposure. The chronic health effects in the sheep and men are not expected following exposure to aldicarb. No explanation exists for the chronic health effects, nor have such effects been previously reported in aldicarb poisonings.	1	pesticide
8082187	Amino-acid alterations in the beta-tubulin gene of Neurospora crassa that confer resistance to carbendazim and diethofencarb.	We have previously shown that increased sensitivity to diethofencarb in the carbendazim(MBC)-resistant F914 strain of Neurospora crassa is caused by a single amino-acid change in beta-tubulin, 198Glu to Gly. Three diethofencarb-resistant mutants that are also resistant to MBC were isolated from strain F914. They contained single base-pair-substitution mutations in the beta-tubulin gene. The amino acid changes in beta-tubulin, Phe from 250Leu, Val from 165Ala, and Ala from 237Thr, were responsible for diethofencarb-resistance in the mutant strains FR511, FR513, and FR421, respectively. The amino acid at position 198 of beta-tubulin in these mutants was Gly, which is the same as in strain F914. beta-tubulin genes with 198Glu were constructed by site-directed mutagenesis. The altered beta-tubulin genes derived from FR511 and FR421 transformed the wild-type strain to resistance to MBC, indicating that 250Phe and 237Ala in beta-tubulin are responsible for resistance not only to diethofencarb but also to MBC.	1	pesticide
8115546	S1 destabilization and higher sensitivity to light in metribuzin-resistant mutants.	Mutations in the secondary quinone electron acceptor (QB) pocket of the D1 protein conferring a modification on the donor side of photosystem II (PSII) have been characterized by gene cloning and sequencing in two metribuzin-resistant mutants of Synechocystis PCC 6714. The mutations induce different herbicide resistances: in M30, a point mutation at the codon 248, isoleucine to threonine, results in resistance only to metribuzin; in M35, a single mutation, Ala251Val, confers metribuzin, atrazine, and ioxynil resistance. As with other herbicide-resistant mutants, M30 and M35 present modifications in the electron transfer between the primary quinone electron acceptor (QA) and QB. In addition, they have a modified oscillatory pattern of oxygen emission: after dark adaptation, the maximum oscillation is shifted by one flash. Both mutants have a higher concentration of the redox state in the dark-adapted state than the wild type. The mutations render the oxygen-evolving system more accessible to cell reductants. The mutation Ala251Val also confers to PSII an increased sensitivity to high light. We have already demonstrated that under light stress a double mutant, AzV (Ala251Val, Phe211Ser), lost the ability to recover the PSII activity sooner than the wild type. Here, we confirm that the modification of the alanine-251 is responsible for this specific sensitivity to high light. We conclude that specific mutations of the QB pocket modify the behavior of the cells under light stress and have an effect on the structure of the D1 protein in the other side of the membrane.	1	pesticide
8164758	[Poisoning with amitraz, an agricultural anti-ectoparasitic agent].	A mentally handicapped male aged 22 years ingested 25-100 ml of the agricultural anti-ectoparasite product amitraz (Taktic) (at most 12.5 g amitraz), and went into coma approx. one hour later (Glasgow coma score: 3). Gastric lavage was performed and activated charcoal and sodium sulphate deposited in the stomach. Product information could be obtained from the manufacturers in the United Kingdom with some trouble, 1.5 hours after admission. It was striking how little information is available concerning the toxicity of agricultural products. Patient had recovered the next day; he was discharged three days after admission. Blood assay 1.5 hours after ingestion revealed a concentration of amitraz plus metabolites of 3.7 micrograms/ml; when the patient came out of coma it was < 0.67 microgram/ml.	1	pesticide
8204314	Unusual manifestations after malathion poisoning.	We report a case of organophosphate poisoning with a commercial preparation of malathion (deliberate ingestion of Malathane Garden Spray: malathion 15% in isopropyl alcohol) in which the initial cholinergic crisis was followed by cardiac, pulmonary, neurological and renal manifestations. They occurred when erythrocyte and plasma cholinesterases were reactivating. A chemical analysis of the pesticide preparation revealed, apart from malathion itself, the presence of isopropylmalathion and O,O,S-trimethylphosphorothioate. Although pure malathion is regarded as one of the safest organophosphate insecticides, this observation underlines the possibility of severe complications after exposure to a preparation which has been stored for a long period of time.	1	pesticide
8272979	Environmental activation of pesticides.	Spray drift from application sites, runoff from agricultural fields, leftover products from home use, and accidental spills have made pesticide contamination ubiquitous in the environment. As a pesticide moves through the environment, it may react through chemical and biotic processes such as hydrolysis, oxidation, or reduction, or be metabolized in microorganisms, animals, plants, and humans. Most reactions will be inactivations, forming degradation products less toxic or persistent than the parent compound. However, some reactions are activations, creating breakdown products equally or more toxic, persistent, or mobile than the parent and posing a greater threat to nontarget organisms and the environment. Examples are drawn from the major classes of pesticides including organochlorine compounds (DDT and aldrin), organophosphorus pesticides (malathion), carbamate pesticides (aldicarb), and fungicides to illustrate the various activation routes.	1	pesticide
8294621	Pyrethroid resistance in German cockroaches (Dictyoptera: Blattelidae): resistance levels and underlying mechanisms.	Thirty strains of Blattella germanica (L.) reported to be pyrethroid resistant were collected from three continents. Greater than 2-fold resistance to the pyrethroids cyfluthrin, fenvalerate, cypermethrin, and lambda cyhalothrin appeared in 15 of these strains. Twelve of these strains were also resistant to chlorpyrifos and propoxur. All the field strains tested were heterogeneous with regard to resistance. Possible resistance mechanisms detected in these populations included elevated levels of cytochrome P450, general esterase and glutathione S-transferase, and nerve insensitivity (kdr-type resistance). The elevated esterases and oxidase-based resistance were the most prevalent; 11 and 10 strains, respectively, had evidence of these mechanisms. Resistance was synergized by piperonyl butoxide in some strains. In some strains, elevated esterases, although present, were primarily correlated with organophosphate resistance. Pyrethroid insecticides may still be effective against many of these populations because of the low levels of resistance detected. However, potential exists for more serious resistance problems to develop if only pyrethroids are used. Because many of these strains are already resistant to organophosphorus and carbamate insecticides, prospects for the future chemical control of these populations must be carefully considered.	1	pesticide
8296357	Bed nets for the prevention of malaria and anaemia in pregnancy.	A prospective comparison of the antimalarial efficacy of bed nets was conducted with 341 pregnant women living in a mesoendemic malarious area of the Thai-Burmese border. Women in 3 adjacent study sites were allocated at random to receive either a single size permethrin-impregnated bed net (PIB), a non-impregnated bed net (NIB), or to a control group who used either their own family size non-impregnated bed net (FNIB) or no net. In one study site, but not the other 2, PIB significantly reduced parasite densities and, together with FNIB, reduced the incidence of malaria in pregnancy from 56% to 33% (relative risk = 1.67, confidence interval = 1.07-2.61, P = 0.03, allowing for parity). Anaemia proved a more sensitive marker of bed net antimalarial efficacy than parasite rates. The incidence of anaemia (haematocrit < 30%) at all study sites was significantly lower at delivery in the PIB (27%) and FNIB groups (21%) than in the NIB group (41%) or those using no net (56%). This suggests that a significant proportion of the malaria in pregnancy in this mesoendemic area was sub-patent. Both patent Plasmodium falciparum parasitaemia and anaemia were associated with a reduction in birth weight. Infant mortality was high (16%) and strongly associated with prematurity, low birth weight and maternal anaemia. PIB were well tolerated and had no apparent adverse effect on the pregnancy or infant development. Although the overall effect of bed nets on patent parasitaemia was marginal, they were associated with a significant reduction in maternal malaria-associated anaemia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)	1	pesticide
8308355	Susceptibility of three tick Hyalomma spp. from North Sinai Governorate to certain pesticide groups.	Three species of Hyalomma tick, (H. anatolicum, H. dromedarii and H. impeltatum) were collected from camels in North Sinai. The susceptibility of adult females and males of each species to four different groups of insecticides (BHC, Fenitrothion, Permethrin and Baygon) were determined. The results of Lc50 values showed that BHC was the most effective compound against adult males and females of H. impeltatum, whereas the superior efficiency against H. anatolicum and H. dromedarii occurred by Baygon and Permethrin respectively on both males and females. Also the results indicated that the adult males of all tested species of ticks were more susceptible to all the tested insecticides than the adult females.	1	pesticide
8315858	[In vitro studies of the metabolism of paraquat and diquat using rat liver homogenates--isolation and identification of the metabolites of paraquat and diquat].	The metabolism of paraquat and diquat was studied in vitro using rat liver homogenates, and the resulting metabolites were identified. Rat liver was homogenized with three volumes of isotonic buffer, and aliquots of the homogenate were preheated in a boiling water bath for 5 min prior to use. One milliliter of a mixture including both paraquat and diquat in an isotonic buffer solution (10 micrograms ion/ml) was incubated with an equal volume of fresh or preheated homogenate for 1 to 60 min at 37 degrees C. Quantification of paraquat and diquat was carried out by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). In the fresh homogenate, a gradual decrease of paraquat concentration (about a 30% decrease over 60 min of incubation) and a rapid decrease of diquat concentration (not detectable after 10 min of incubation) were observed, but the same phenomenon was not evident with the preheated homogenate. Analysis of the incubated mixture of fresh liver homogenate with paraquat and diquat revealed three unknown peaks on the HPLC chromatograms; these seemed to be breakdown products of paraquant and diquat. The products were isolated and purified from the mixture by Sep-Pak C18 cartridge extraction, HPLC, silica gel column chromatography and Sephadex LH-20 column chromatography. Analysis of the chemical structure of the purified compounds was performed by infrared spectroscopy, mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. These analyses determined that paraquat-monopyridone (1',2'-dihydro-1,1'-dimethyl-2-oxo-4,4'-bipyridylium ion) was derived from paraquat, and that diquat-monopyridone (6,7-dihydro-4-oxodipyrido [1,2-a':2',1'-c] pyrazinium ion) and diquat-dipyridone (6,7-dihydrodipyrido [1,2-a:2',1'-c] pyrazine-4,9-dione) were derived from diquat. These results indicate that paraquat and diquat are metabolized by rat liver homogenate, diquat more readily so than paraquat. As the toxicity of these metabolites has been reported to be much lower than those of the parental compounds, it would seem that there is a system capable of detoxifying paraquat and diquat in rat liver.	1	pesticide
8350078	Indoor low-volume insecticide spray for the control of Anopheles albimanus in southern Mexico. Village-scale trials of bendiocarb, deltamethrin and cyfluthrin.	A comparative insecticide village-scale trial was carried out to determine the efficacy of low-volume (LV) indoor spray of bendiocarb, deltamethrin and cyfluthrin for the control of Anopheles albimanus in a coastal plain of southern Mexico. Low-volume spray was conducted with knapsack mist-blowers, giving an average discharge rate of 215 ml/min, which deposited droplets of 50-100 microns. Using this technique, 25 houses were treated/sprayman/day as compared with 8 houses/sprayman/day using conventional hand compression pumps. Indicators of LV mortality showed a residual activity of 10 wk as compared with 13 wk of activity for wettable powder (WP) (bendiocarb). When comparing expenditures, LV spray costs were 43% less when using bendiocarb, 83% less with deltamethrin and 74% less with cyfluthrin with respect to the conventional WP spray of the same insecticides. Low-volume spray time was reduced by one-third, with respect to WP. Malaria incidence was reduced by 53 and 56%, respectively, in the bendiocarb LV and deltamethrin LV treated villages as compared with the untreated village.	1	pesticide
8368871	Frictional transition of pesticides from protective clothing.	Frictional transition of pesticides, the transition of the dried pesticide due to rubbing, from protective clothing was investigated by using an AATCC standard crockmeter. One insecticide (carbaryl) and two herbicides (atrazine and metolachlor) were studied, together with three protective clothing materials [cotton, polyester, and polyester/cotton (65/35) blend] and three crock fabrics (cotton, nylon, and silk). The effects of the properties of pesticide, fabrics, water, and perspiration on the frictional transition are discussed. The experiment showed that up to 12% of the pesticide could transfer from contaminated protective clothing to the skin through rubbing. Choosing the right materials for protective clothing and underwear would greatly decrease the frictional transition of the pesticide.	1	pesticide
8376650	Relationship between insecticide resistance and performance in choice tests of field-collected German cockroaches (Dictyoptera: Blattellidae).	Topical application (LD) and time-mortality response (LT) methods were used to determine resistance levels of field-collected strains of the German cockroach, Blattella germanica (L.). LD50s for chlorpyrifos were determined for seven strains. LT50s and LT90s with eight insecticides were determined for another three strains. Resistance ratios (RR) of > 10 to chlorpyrifos (LD50) were directly related to a significant decrease in activity in Ebeling choice-box tests. Using the LT method, the three field-collected strains were shown to possess zero to moderate resistance at the RR50 level (0.9-5.3) to organophosphates, moderate to high resistance to (1.4->21.0) to carbamates, moderate to high resistance (4.3-20) to cypermethrin, and high resistance (>17->35) to synergized pyrethrins. When the three field-collected strains were tested in choice boxes, RR50S of 1.2-2.2 for chlorpyrifos and 2.5-5.3 for diazinon directly related to significantly lower efficacy. Low-level propoxur resistance (RR50 of 1.4-2.3) also reduced choice-box efficacy, but an RR50 of 0.9-1.3 for acephate did not reduce its performance. Cypermethrin deposits used in choice tests killed cockroaches exhibiting RR50s as high as 20 in the lethal time test, perhaps because resistance mechanisms could not detoxify the exceptional activity of the active ingredient formulated as a wettable powder. Because they were repellent, residual deposits of pyrethrins resulted in poor efficacy in choice tests with either susceptible or field-collected strains. Strains with low-level physiological resistance as measured by the time-mortality response method survived insecticide exposure in choice-box tests to certain organophosphate and carbamate insecticides, indicating that these compounds would not be effective in the field.	1	pesticide
8434460	Effect of malathion, estradiol-17-beta and progesterone on ascorbic acid metabolism in prenatal rats and their pups.	The effects of prenatal exposure to 13.78 mg, 27.56 mg or 82.6 mg malathion/100 g body weight po from 6-13 d of gestation, to 1 microgram estradiol-17-beta/d/100g body weight or 4 mg progesterone/d/100 g body weight sc from 3-20 d of gestation, or to their various combinations on brain acetylcholinesterase activity and ascorbic acid metabolism were investigated in rat dams and pups. Brain acetylcholinesterase activity was taken as an index of toxicity. Significant inhibition of acetylcholinesterase from malathion exposure was further exaggerated by estradiol-17-beta, but was reversed by progesterone. Significant increases of ascorbic acid levels and L-gulonolactone oxidase was observed with malathion toxicity. Estradiol-17-beta decreased ascorbic acid levels and stimulated dehydroascorbatase, while progesterone had no significant effect on ascorbic acid levels or on enzyme activities.	1	pesticide
8452542	Photo-oxidation of 5-enolpyruvoylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase from Escherichia coli: evidence for a reactive imidazole group (His385) at the herbicide glyphosate-binding site.	Photo-oxidation of Escherichia coli 5-enolpyruvoylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase, a target for the non-selective herbicide glyphosate (N-phosphonomethylglycine), in the presence of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate resulted in irreversible inactivation of the enzyme. The inactivation followed pseudo-first-order and saturation kinetics with a Kinact. of 50 microM. The inactivation is specifically prevented by preincubation of the enzyme with the combination of shikimate 3-phosphate and glyphosate. Increasing glyphosate concentration during preincubation resulted in a decreasing rate of inactivation. On 95% inactivation, approximately one histidine per molecule of enzyme was oxidized. Tryptic mapping of the enzyme modified in the absence and presence of shikimate 3-phosphate and glyphosate as well as analyses of the histidine content in the isolated peptides indicated that His385, in the peptide Asn383-Asp-His-Arg386, was the site of oxidation. These results suggest that His385 is the most accessible reactive imidazole group under these conditions and is located close to the glyphosate-binding site.	1	pesticide
8507100	Biochemical and toxicological studies on the mixtures of three commonly-used herbicides in mice.	Herbicidal-mixtures have not been adequately studied in biological systems. Therefore, mixtures of three commonly-used herbicides were evaluated. Alachlor (AL), atrazine (AT), picloram (PI), AL+AT, AT+PI, PI+AL and AL+AT+PI, at 10 ppm (in drinking water) of each herbicide, were provided to mice for 30, as well as for 90, days ad libitum; these herbicides and mixtures, at 100 mg/kg (in corn oil) of each herbicide, were also given to additional groups of mice by oral intubation daily for 21 days. In the 30-day test, the spleen/body weight ratios on Day 31 with respect to the control were increased in the AT (53%) and AL+AT (44%) groups. Decreases in the body weights were noted in the treated groups after Day 31 during the 90-day test. Serum glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (SGPT), glutamic-oxalacetic transaminase (SGOT) and alkaline phosphatase activities with AL+AT+PI were elevated by 36-92% on Day 91; SGPT (34%) and SGOT (73%) activities were increased with AL. During the 21-day oral intubation study, the mouse body weights in the mixture groups were generally lower than the control (p < or = 0.05). The liver/body weight ratios were elevated in all groups (16-38%); the spleen/body weight ratio increased with PI (50%). The kidney/body weight ratios were high with PI+AL and AL+AT+PI (p < or = 0.05). Excluding AT, the pentobarbital-induced sleep was less (51-77%) in the herbicide-treated groups. Also, necrosis of individual and small groups of hepatocytes was noted with the mixtures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)	1	pesticide
8510610	Utility of a neurobehavioral screening battery for differentiating the effects of two pyrethroids, permethrin and cypermethrin.	The ability of a neurobehavioral screening battery to differentiate the effects of two pyrethroids, permethrin and cypermethrin, was assessed in this experiment. Although the structures of these pesticides differ only in the alpha-cyano group, the behavioral syndromes associated with the Type I and II pyrethroids are quite different. The tests included a functional observational battery which is a series of subjective and quantitative measures of neurological function and behavior, and an automated measure of motor activity. Our results verified previous reports in the literature describing these different syndromes, i.e., aggressive sparring behavior, fine to whole-body tremor, hyperthermia, and decreased motor activity for the Type I pyrethroid permethrin, and pawing, burrowing, salivation, whole body tremor to choreoathetosis, hypothermia, and lowered motor activity for the Type II pyrethroid cypermethrin. In addition, we report that permethrin produced decreased grip strengths, increased resistance to capture, increased reactivity to a click stimulus, and induced head and forelimb shaking and agitated behaviors, whereas cypermethrin produced pronounced neuromuscular weakness and equilibrium changes, retropulsion, lateral head movements, alterations in responses to various stimuli, and increased urination. Although there were similarities in some effects (e.g., decreased motor activity), the pesticides differed sufficiently in their overall behavioral profiles, and severity and time course of effects, to discriminate these two compounds. Thus, this type of screening approach is sensitive enough to differentiate these pyrethroids for hazard identification purposes.	1	pesticide
8523494	A comparative study of direct hemoperfusion and hemodialysis for the removal of glufosinate ammonium.	BASTA is a herbicide containing glufosinate ammonium 18.5% and a surface-active agent. There were six fatalities in 34 cases of glufosinate ammonium poisoning reported by the Japan Poison Information Center. To evaluate efficacy in the removal of glufosinate ammonium from the blood, two bottles were prepared containing 600 mL of heparinized bovine blood with 1 mL or 3 mL of BASTA. Direct hemoperfusion or hemodialysis was performed for two hours at a flow rate of 50 mL/min. The final glufosinate ammonium concentration of the blood bottle containing 1 mL of BASTA decreased to 96.9% of the initial concentration after direct hemoperfusion and to 0.5% after hemodialysis. The final glufosinate ammonium concentration of the bottle containing 3 mL of BASTA decreased to 62.2% after direct hemoperfusion and to 0.9% after hemodialysis. Hemodialysis is more effective than direct hemoperfusion for removal of glufosinate ammonium from blood.	1	pesticide
8659091	[The effect of supermethrin, an insecticide, on health status indicators in sheep during subchronic poisoning].	The effect of supermethrin on the overall health with respect to weight gains, diet intake, triad values (body temperature, pulse rate and breathing rate) and potential intoxication signs was investigated in sheep of the Slovak Mertino breed (age of 8 months, males and females) during 6-week feeding of the insecticide supermethrin (Research Institute of Chemical Technology, Bratislava). This insecticide supermethrin contains a cyanide group in its molecule and can be included in the group of type II pyrethroids. It is an analog of cypermethrin and it has a different proportion of cis- and trans-isomers. Supermethrin mixed with molasses feed M was administered daily at a dose of 50 mg/kg (about 1/70 of LD50) to five sheep of experimental group I, at a dose of 200 mg/kg (about 1/15 of LD50) to five sheep of experimental group II, and the dose increased from 200 mg to 300 mg/kg l.w. (about 1/20 of LD50) since the fourth week of trial. The main signs of its toxic action involved depressive effects on weight gains (Fig. 4) Over the whole period of trial, the live weight rose by 5.44 +/- 1.94 kg in control group, by 2.66 +/- 1.48 kg in experimental group I, which equates a significant decrease by 51.10% and only 0.34 +/- 0.95 kg in experimental group II, which equates a decrease in weight gains by up to 93.75% against the control. We do not believe that the growth depression can be related to diet intake. There were no larger differences in feed intake between the experimental groups and the control. The growth depression was caused by incessant diarrhea. The patho-morphological examination did not reveal hyperemia and/or intestinal inflammation, the histological examination did not show any lesions of epithelium in the intestinal mucosa. An increase in supermethrin dose from 200 to 300 mg/kg l.w. resulted in signs coming from the CNS. Hypersensibility manifested by moderate unrest, head and neck shaking after auditory, and especially after touch stimuli was observed. This tremor was increasing to became spontaneous 3-4 days before trial termination. The above findings clearly suggest that supermethrin administration at lower doses has harmful effects primarily on the digestive tract, but at higher doses these effects are more intensive accompanied by the effects on the CNS. No negative effects on pulse rate (Fig. 1), breathing rate (Fig. 2) and internal body temperature (Fig. 3) were recorded.	1	pesticide
8700010	[The insecticidal activity of the new combined dust Malcord].	A formulation of 0.5% Malcord dust, which contains carbofos and permethrin (a 1:1 ratio) as active agents, was designed and examined. LC99 against synanthropic insects by the active ingredient was 0.01-0.005 g/m2. The effective application rate of the dust ranged 5 to 10 g/m2 in the treatment of various objects. The residual insecticidal effect of the dust on the treated surfaces remained 1.5-2.0 months (depending upon the type of an object). The dust Malcord has been permitted by the health care authorities of the Russian Federation for its usage by specialists and the population.	1	pesticide
8714144	Development of malathion resistance in Culex quinquefasciatus Say (Diptera: Culicidae).	A malathion resistant colony of C. quinquefasciatus was developed in the laboratory. LC50 and LC90 for larvae were calculated at every generation and the values were 0.3 ppm and 1.13 ppm for first generation and 61.09 ppm, 136.3 ppm for 25th generation respectively. The fold increase in LC50 and LC90 were 2036 and 2726 folds respectively. Cross resistance against propoxur and chlorpyrifos showed 6.64 and 6.52 fold and 600 and 720 fold increase in their LC50 and LC90 values respectively. Triphenyl phosphate (TPP) and piperonyl butoxide (PB) were used as synergists and TPP indicated proportional decrease in LC50 and LC90 values while not much change was observed with PB. No change in biotic potential (larval hatchability, adult emergence and male and female ratio) between susceptible and malathion resistant colonies was observed.	1	pesticide
8723257	Deposition of malathion and permethrin on sod grass after single, ultra-low volume applications in a suburban neighborhood in Michigan.	Deposition of malathion and permethrin onto grass surfaces, after ultra-low volume (ULV) application, was studied in a suburban neighborhood in Saginaw County, Michigan. Commercial concentrates of malathion (Cythion ULV) and permethrin (Biomist 4 + 12) were sprayed using a truck-mounted ULV aerosol generator. Sod-grass blocks (0.18 m2) were placed in the frontyard and backyard of homes in the neighborhood at 4 distances to 91.4 m from the road where applications were made. Grass samples were taken from the sod blocks before application and at 15 min, 12 h, 24 h, and 36 h after application. Samples were extracted with solvent, and extractions were subjected to gas-liquid chromatography for detection of malathion and permethrin. Ranges of detection for malathion were 0.0-16.6 mg/0.18 m2 and for permethrin were 0.0-25.9 mg/0.18 m2. Most detections were from samples taken nearest the road at 15 min after application. Detections declined as a logarithmic function of time after application and as an exponential function of distance from the road.	1	pesticide
8723263	Contact toxicity of permethrin-impregnated military uniforms to Culex pipiens (Diptera:Culicidae) and Phlebotomus papatasi (Diptera: Psychodidae): effects of laundering and time of exposure.	The effects of laundering and time of exposure on the insecticidal activity of military uniform fabric impregnated with permethrin at 0.125 mg active ingredient (AI)/cm2 are reported from susceptibility tests with laboratory-reared mosquitoes, Culex pipiens, and sand flies, Phlebotomus papatasi. Knockdown/mortality resulting from exposure of groups of female insects for periods of 1, 3, 5, 7, and 10 min was recorded and compared among 5 different treatment/wash groups (untreated/unwashed, treated/unwashed, treated/1-wash, treated/2-wash, treated/3-wash). Laundering was by machine washing with detergent and warm water followed by hot-air machine drying. Post-exposure assessments at intervals from 0 to 60 min and at 24 h showed that knockdown for each exposure time and wash group was initially low but increased steadily during the first hour post-exposure. Sand flies were less sensitive than mosquitoes to knockdown during the first 60 min after contact with treated/unwashed fabric; however, 24-h mortality rates for sand flies were higher as compared with mosquitoes. The permethrin remaining after a 3rd wash had little knockdown effect on mosquitoes but was toxic to sand flies at each of the 5 exposure times. Significant reductions in the knockdown effectiveness of permethrin-treated fabric to mosquitoes and sand flies was associated with single and repeated washings of the fabric.	1	pesticide
8723267	Organophosphate resistance in Culex pipiens from Cyprus.	Populations of Culex pipiens were sampled from 8 locations in Cyprus between 1987 and 1993. All population samples generally revealed organophosphate resistance to malathion, temephos, chlorpyrifos, fenthion, dichlorvos, and pirimiphos methyl, in decreasing order of magnitude. Of 7 populations assessed with the carbamate propoxur, all proved to be resistant to different degrees. Of the 6 populations tested with permethrin, 2 were resistant to permethrin. Resistance was associated with the presence of 5 different overproduced esterases (esterases A1, A2, A5, B2, and B5) as well as an insensitive form of acetylcholinesterase. These results are discussed in relation to the ongoing mosquito abatement program in Cyprus and to similar programs in other parts of the world.	1	pesticide
8742317	Time course of inhibition of cholinesterase and aliesterase activities, and nonprotein sulfhydryl levels following exposure to organophosphorus insecticides in mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis).	Cholinesterase (ChE) in brain and muscle was quickly inhibited during a 48-hr in vivo exposure to chlorpyrifos (0.1 ppm), parathion (0.15 ppm), and methyl parathion (8 ppm) in mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis). ChE remained inhibited during a 96-hr nonexposure period. Brain ChE reached peak inhibition by 12 hr after exposure to parathion and chlorpyrifos and by 4 hr after exposure to methyl parathion. All insecticides caused greater than 70% ChE inhibition by 4 hr in muscle. There was no recovery of ChE after 4 days of nonexposure in either brain or muscle. Hepatic aliesterases (AliE) were quickly and greatly inhibited (> 70% by 4 hr) after exposure to parathion and chlorpyrifos but not after exposure to methyl parathion. Exposure to methyl parathion required 24-36 hr to inhibit hepatic AliE to the same level as that following parathion and chlorpyrifos exposures at 4 hr. Exposure to all insecticides eventually resulted in greater than 80% inhibition of AliE. None of the test groups treated with insecticides showed any signs of significant recovery of AliE during the 4 days of nonexposure. Nonprotein sulfhydryl (NPSH) concentrations were lower than controls after 24 hr of exposure and 96 hr after recovery for all compounds. Exposure to methyl parathion lowered NPSH concentrations greater than the other compounds. Hepatic AliE appear capable of affording some protection of ChE from inhibition following parathion or chlorpyrifos exposures, but considerably less protection against methyl parathion.	1	pesticide
8744706	Permethrin-impregnated bednets are more effective than DDT house-spraying to control malaria in Solomon Islands.	A field trial compared DDT house-spraying with permethrin-impregnated bednets for malaria control in Solomon Islands from 1987 to 1991. Mortality-rates of malaria vector Anopheles farauti in exit window traps were 11.6% from an untreated hut, 10.1% from a hut sprayed with DDT 2 g/m2, and 98% of those from a hut in which the occupants used bednets treated with permethrin 0.5 g/m2. Since bioassays of the DDT-sprayed walls (15 min exposure in W.H.O. standard test cones) gave 77% mortality of An.farauti, it was concluded that the insignificant impact of DDT could be explained by the exophilic behaviour of endophagic vectors, whereas the greater impact of permethrin was attributed to the more effective exposure of An.farauti females to the impregnated bednets-attracted by the occupants. The parous rate was higher indoors, except in the area with permethrin-impregnated bednets. It was therefore concluded that permethrin-impregnated bednets reduced the mean longevity of An.farauti and hence its vectorial capacity. The circumsporozoite (CS) antigen positivity rate of An.farauti in the DDT area was 0.18% outdoors, significantly less than 1.42% indoors. In the comparison area CS rates were 0.65% outdoors and 0.75% indoors. CS antigen was not detected in An.farauti from the bednet area, indicating the apparent prevention of malaria transmission. As DDT spraying was so much less effective, it was discontinued in 1993 and permethrin-impregnated bednets are now the principal malaria control method in Solomon Islands.	1	pesticide
8812239	Failure of chloro-S-triazine-derived compounds to induce estrogen receptor-mediated responses in vivo and in vitro.	The potential estrogenic activities of atrazine and simazine were investigated in vivo using the immature female Sprague-Dawley rat uterus and in vitro using the estrogen-responsive MCF-7 human breast cancer cell line and the estrogen-dependent recombinant yeast strain PL3. Animals that were dosed with 50, 150, or 300 mg/kg of atrazine or simazine alone for 3 consecutive days did not exhibit any significant increases in uterine wet weight while decreases in cytosolic progesterone receptor (PR) binding levels and uterine peroxidase activity were observed. 17 beta-estradiol (E2)-induced increases in uterine wet weight were not significantly affected by cotreatment with either chemical; however, some dose-independent decreases in E2-induced cytosolic PR binding and uterine peroxidase activity were observed. In vitro, atrazine and simazine did not affect basal or E2-induced MCF-7 cell proliferation or the formation of nuclear PR-DNA complexes as determined by gel electrophoretic mobility shift assays. In addition, these chloro-S-triazines did not display agonist activity or antagonize E2-induced luciferase activity in MCF-7 cells transiently transfected with a Gal4-human estrogen receptor chimera (Gal4-HEGO) and a Gal4-regulated luciferase reporter gene (17m5-G-Luc). Moreover, the estrogen-dependent PL3 yeast strain was not capable of growth on minimal media supplemented with atrazine or simazine in place of E2. Collectively, these results indicate that the reported estrogenic and antiestrogenic effects elicited by these chemicals are not mediated by the estrogen receptor.	1	pesticide
8888633	Occupational exposure to permethrin during its use as a public hygiene insecticide.	Permethrin is an active ingredient found in many public hygiene insecticide products and exposure to it was assessed in a survey of 45 professional users. The exposures measured were over a wide range, with more than a 100-fold difference between average levels and the highest levels. Dermal contamination was evident on 93% of the operators, the highest contamination resulting from the use of leaking application equipment, demonstrating that proper maintenance of equipment is vital. Where the insecticide was applied at ground level most contamination was on the legs, indicating the importance of appropriate footwear. Contamination of the hands occurred despite the use of protective gloves, higher levels of contamination occurring when liquids were used. Dermal contamination was not always the principle route of exposure, and high airborne concentrations were linked with use in confined areas. Airborne concentrations were also associated with the physical form of the product used and the treatment method. To help in assessing the effectiveness of protective clothing and control measures, biological monitoring was carried out. Monitoring of metabolites in urine showed that systemic uptake occurred but evidence from toxicological studies indicates that the levels found were well below those considered to cause harm.	1	pesticide
9002437	Virulence of the entomopathogenic fungus Metarhizium flavoviride Gams and Rozsypal and toxicity of diflubenzuron, fenitrothion-esfenvalerate and profenofos-cypermethrin to nontarget arthropods in Mauritania.	Within the framework of the GTZ project, Biological and Integrated Control of Locusts and Grasshoppers, a laboratory screening fo rMetarhizium flavoviride (strain Mfl 5) blastospore pathogenicity to the nontarget arthropods Pharoscymnus anchorago F. (Coleoptera:Coccinellidae), Trachyderma hispida (Forskâl) (Coleoptera:Tenebrionidae), Palpares cf. tesselatus Rambur (Neuroptera:Myrmeleontidae) and Thanatus sp. (Araneae: Philodromidae) was conducted in Akjoujt research station, Mauritania. Various larval stages of desert locust, Schistocerca gregaria Forskâl (Orthoptera:Acrididae), were tested as positive controls. The insect growth regulator diflubenzuron was used as a reference in the bioassay with P.anchorago. In addition, two organophosphate-pyrethroid insecticide swidely used in locust control, fenitrothion-esfenvalerate (P.anchorago, T. hispida) and profenofos-cypermethrin (Thanatussp.) were tested as toxic standards. M. flavoviride was not pathogenic to nontargets, but very virulent to S. gregaria. The results provided further evidence that the host range of M.flavoviride (Mfl5), a strain isolated from migratory locust in Madagascar, is very narrow. Diflubenzuron was toxic to P. anchorago and to S. gregaria. The LD50s of both chemical insecticides tested were considerably lower than the expected initial environmental concentration. The beneficial P. anchorago, a natural enemy of scale insects in date palms, was considered most at risk in the course of chemical locust control. The use of mycopesticides to control desert locust in date palm plantations offers an environmentally safe and economically viable alternative to chemical control.	1	pesticide
9048955	Determination of atrazine levels in whole saliva and plasma in rats: potential of salivary monitoring for occupational exposure.	Current biological monitoring techniques are often unable to provide accurate estimates of pesticide dose in exposed worker populations. This study was conducted to investigate the feasibility of pesticide biomonitoring using saliva. Atrazine [2-chloro-4-ethylamino-6-(isopropylamino)-s-triazine], a member of the triazine herbicides, was selected to investigate salivary excretion following direct gastric administration in rats. Concentrations of atrazine in whole saliva and arterial plasma samples were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Atrazine reached its highest level in both arterial plasma (238 micrograms/L) and whole saliva (157 micrograms/L) 35 min after administration of 105 mg/kg of atrazine, and then decreased with time in a parallel fashion. Although saliva atrazine levels were lower than levels in arterial plasma, there was a very high correlation between whole saliva and arterial plasma atrazine concentrations (r2 = .95). In addition, pharmacokinetic analysis suggested that salivary levels of atrazine can be used to predict concentrations of atrazine in plasma. The mean whole saliva/arterial plasma atrazine concentration ratio (S/P) was 0.66 +/- 0.11 (n = 20). The S/P ratios did not vary significantly over time, and were not affected by salivary flow rate. This study demonstrates that atrazine is transported into saliva, and that a relatively constant concentration ratio between whole saliva and arterial plasma is maintained. Because the salivary concentrations of atrazine are independent of variation in salivary flow rate, salivary monitoring of atrazine in humans may prove useful and practical. Finally, this study suggests that other pesticides with chemical and physical properties similar to those of atrazine can be monitored in saliva.	1	pesticide
9061680	Anopheles gambiae gonotrophic cycle duration, biting and exiting behaviour unaffected by permethrin-impregnated bednets in The Gambia.	Permethrin-impregnated bednets protect children against malaria in The Gambia, where Anopheles gambiae complex mosquitoes are the main vectors of malaria. However, no effect has been found on mosquito density, parous rates or sporozoite rates in An.gambiae sensu lato populations; only a reduction in the numbers of mosquitoes resting indoors in rooms with treated bednets. A possible explanation for this paradox is that exposure to treated bednets leads to changed vector behaviour such as a shift in biting time, a diversion to biting outdoors instead of indoors, to biting animals instead of humans, or to increased duration of the gonotrophic cycle. To investigate these possibilities, we observed the biting and existing behaviour of An.gambiae in ten pairs of villages, in half of which the residents used permethrin-treated bednets. The possible influence of treated bednets on the gonotrophic cycle length was evaluated by mark-release-recapture experiment. No significant difference was found between villages with treated and untreated bednets in the indoor/outdoor ratio of human biting, in mean biting times or in human blood indices of An.gambiae females found resting indoors in the mornings. The proportions of unfed, fed or gravid An.gambiae females collected in exit traps, and the number of females exiting showed no significant differences between rooms with treated and untreated bednets. Indications for a gonotrophic cycle length of 2 days were found. No evidence for any change in duration of the gonotrophic cycle in relation to exposure to treated bednets was found, although the number of recaptures was low in the villages with treated bednets. Since equal numbers of infective An.gambiae were found in villages with treated or untreated bednets, and no changes in mosquito behaviour were detected, we cannot account for how children are protected against malaria by treated bednets. One possibility is that mosquitoes divert to bite other hosts, including adults.	1	pesticide
9142171	Genotoxicity of select herbicides in Rana catesbeiana tadpoles using the alkaline single-cell gel DNA electrophoresis (comet) assay.	"Pesticides are broadly used for pest control in agriculture despite possible negative impacts they may pose to the environment. Thus, we examined the DNA damage caused by five herbicides commonly used in southern Ontario (Canada). Erythrocytes from Rana catesbeiana (bullfrog) tadpoles were evaluated for DNA damage following exposure to selected herbicides, using the alkaline single-cell gel DNA electrophoresis (SCG) or ""comet"" assay [Singh et al. (1988): Exp Cell Res 175:184-191; Ralph et al. (1996): Eviron Mol Mutagen 28:112-120]. This approach involves detection, under alkaline conditions, of DNA fragments that upon electrophoresis migrate from the nuclear care, resulting in a comet formation. The herbicides tested, along with their active ingredients, were AAtrex Nine-O (atrazine), Dual-960E (metalochlor), Roundup (glyphosate), Sencor-500F (metribuzin), and Amsol (2,4-D amine). Tadpoles were exposed in the laboratory for a 24-hr period to several concentrations of the herbicides dissolved in dechlorinated water. Methyl methanesulphonate was used as a positive control. The herbicides AAtrex Nine-O-, Dual-960E-, Roundup-, and Sencor-500F-treated tadpoles showed significant DNA damage when compared with unexposed control animals, whereas, Amsol-treated tadpoles did not. Unlike the other responding herbicides, Sencor-500F did not show a relationship between dosage and DNA damage. In summary, the results indicate that at least some of the herbicides currently used in southern Ontario are capable of inducing DNA damage in tadpoles."	1	pesticide
9145029	Susceptibility of stable flies (Diptera:Muscidae) from southeastern Nebraska beef cattle feedlots to selected insecticides and comparison of 3 bioassay techniques.	Insecticide susceptibility of field populations of stable flies, Stomoxys calcitrans (L.), was assayed using 3 exposure techniques: treated filter papers, treated glass petri dishes, and topical applications. Both topical applications and residual exposure to treated glass surfaces were suitable for testing susceptibility of stable flies to permethrin, stirofos, or methoxychlor. Residues on filter papers yielded inconsistent results with stirofos and methoxychlor. Significant concentration-mortality regression lines were generated with permethrin residues on filter papers, but approximately 1,000 times more insecticide was required to produce a toxic response when compared with permethrin residues on glass. Because of higher variability in response and the greater amount of insecticide required, residues on filter papers do not appear appropriate to test insecticide susceptibility in stable flies. Paired comparisons of field (F) and susceptible (S) stable flies resulted in field to susceptible ratios significantly > 1.0 only when the flies were treated topically, which suggests that topical application is more sensitive than residues on glass for the insecticides tested. Topical treatment with permethrin resulted in one FS(LD90) of 1.8-fold. Topical treatment with methoxychlor resulted in one FS(LD90) of 3.4-fold. However, the magnitude of these ratios is not larger than the significant differences observed within the susceptible laboratory colony from one generation to another. Intense exposure to insecticides is not known to have occurred in these field populations, indicating that the observed differences are the result of natural variation among stable fly populations and unrelated to prior selection with insecticides.	1	pesticide
9175499	Comparative sensitivity of Selenastrum capricornutum and Lemna minor to sixteen herbicides.	Aquatic plant toxicity tests are frequently conducted in environmental risk assessments to determine the potential impacts of contaminants on primary producers. An examination of published plant toxicity data demonstrates that wide differences in sensitivity can occur across phylogenetic groups of plants. Yet relatively few studies have been conducted with the specific intent to compare the relative sensitivity of various aquatic plant species to contaminants. We compared the relative sensitivity of the algae Selenastrum capricornutum and the floating vascular plant Lemna minor to 16 herbicides (atrazine, metribuzin, simazine, cyanazine, alachlor, metolachlor, chlorsulfuron, metsulfuron, triallate, EPTC, trifluralin, diquat, paraquat, dicamba, bromoxynil, and 2,4-D). The herbicides studied represented nine chemical classes and several modes of action and were chosen to represent major current uses in the United States. Both plant species were generally sensitive to the triazines (atrazine, metribuzin, simazine, and cyanazine), sulfonureas (metsulfuron and chlorsulfuron), pyridines (diquat and paraquat), dinitroaniline (trifluralin), and acetanilide (alachlor and metolachlor) herbicides. Neither plant species was uniformly more sensitive than the other across the broad range of herbicides tested. Lemna was more sensitive to the sulfonureas (metsulfuron and chlorsulfuron) and the pyridines (diquat and paraquat) than Selenastrum. However Selenastrum was more sensitive than Lemna to one of two thiocarbamates (triallate) and one of the triazines (cyanazine). Neither species was sensitive to selective broadleaf herbicides including bromoxynil, EPTC, dicamba, or 2,4-D. Results were not always predictable in spite of obvious differences in herbicide modes of action and plant phylogeny. Major departures in sensitivity ofSelenastrum occurred between chemicals within individual classes of the triazine, acetanilide, and thiocarbamate herbicides. Results indicate that neither species is predictively most sensitive, and that a number of species including a dicot species such as Myriophyllum are needed to perform accurate risk assessments of herbicides.	1	pesticide
9212790	Assessment of the ability of propoxur, methomyl, and aldicarb, three carbamate insecticides, to induce micronuclei in vitro in cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells and in vivo in BALB/c mice.	Three carbamate insecticides (propoxur, methomyl, and aldicarb) were evaluated for their ability to induce micronuclei (MN) in vitro using cultured Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, and in vivo in mouse bone marrow erythrocytes. In vitro, all three insecticides induced a significant increase in micronucleated binucleate cells, which was generally both dose and sample time dependent. The in vivo studies involved treating male BALB/c mice by different routes, either once or on 3 consecutive days, followed by multiple or single sampling. Treatment by intraperitoneal injection or oral gavage induced a significant increase in micronucleated reticulocytes (MNRETs) in peripheral blood. For all three chemicals, the MN response depended on sample time and the number of treatments, while for aldicarb, the response depended also on the route of exposure. These positive results demonstrate that propoxur, methomyl, and aldicarb are capable of inducing structural and/or numerical chromosomal aberrations in mammalian cells either in vitro or in vivo. Furthermore, based on the results obtained, on optimal in vivo MN protocol for carbamate insecticides is a single treatment followed by blood sampling at 24 and 48 hr after treatment.	1	pesticide
9269081	Acetochlor-a comparative study on parameters governing the potential for water pollution.	The leaching behaviour of the herbicide acetochlor [2-chloro-N-(2-ethyl-6-methylphenyl)-N-(ethoxymethyl)acetamide] was determined as compared with two congener compounds, alachlor [2-chloro-N-(2,6-diethylphenyl)-N-(methoxymethyl)acetamide] and metolachlor [2-chloro-N-(2-ethyl-6-methylphenyl)-N-(2-methoxy-1-methylethyl)acetamid e]. The leaching profiles of the herbicides in columns with different types of soil and their capacity factors in reverse phase HPLC were compared. An approach for preliminary characteristic of the potential for water pollution of acetochlor is presented. The herbicide is classified as a leacher in soil and its potential for contamination of ground water is comparable with those of alachlor and metolachlor.	1	pesticide
9297842	Determination of traces of pesticides in water by solid-phase extraction and liquid chromatography-ionspray mass spectrometry.	A multi-residue analytical method for six pesticides (atrazine, hydroxyatrazine, carbofuran, promecarb, linuron and monolinuron) in drinking water has been developed. The method combines liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry using an ionspray interface. The linearity domain, as well as the limits of detection and quantification, were determined for each compound. Although satisfactory performance could be achieved, present drinking water regulations (0.1 microgram l-1 for single pesticide) requires a pre-concentration step. This was performed using solid-phase extraction with octadecyl-bonded silica cartridges. The analytical procedure was tested on water samples spiked at the 0.04 and 0.08 microgram l-1 levels, and allowed the determination of the investigated pesticides (except hydroxyatrazine) at these trace concentrations.	1	pesticide
9349837	Thyroid hormones and cytogenetic outcomes in backpack sprayers using ethylenebis(dithiocarbamate) (EBDC) fungicides in Mexico.	Ethylenebis(dithiocarbamate) (EBDC) fungicides are used heavily in the United States. EBDCs (e.g., mancozeb, maneb) are metabolized to ethylene thiourea (ETU). The EPA classifies ETU as a carcinogen, based on thyroid and other cancers in rodents, and has restricted the use of EBDCs, while requiring workers to use protective equipment. There are no data on the potential carcinogenicity of EBDCs in humans, and there is only one study on human genotoxicity. ETU is known to cause decreases of thyroxine (T4) and increases in thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) in rodents. We have studied cytogenetic outcomes and serum thyroid hormone levels among 49 heavily exposed workers without protective equipment spraying EBDC on tomatoes in Mexico. We also studied 14 lightly exposed landowners and 31 nonexposed controls. Urinary ETU was used to compare exposure between groups. We found an increase in TSH (p = 0.05) among applicators compared to controls, but no decrease in thyroid hormone (T4). We found increases in sister chromatid exchange (p = 0.03) and in chromosome translocations (chromosome aberrations that persist through cell division) for applicators compared to controls (p = 0.05). However, the subset of reciprocal translocations showed a lesser increase (p = 0.24). Our data suggest that EBDCs affect the thyroid gland and the lymphocyte genome among heavily exposed workers. However, our data are limited to subclinical outcomes, are of borderline statistical significance, and should be interpreted with caution.	1	pesticide
9375515	Identification of ionic chloroacetanilide-herbicide metabolites in surface water and groundwater by HPLC/MS using negative ion spray.	Solid-phase extraction (SPE) was combined with high-performance liquid chromatography/high-flow pneumatically assisted electrospray mass spectrometry (HPLC/ ESP/MS) for the trace analysis of oxanilic and sulfonic acids of acetochlor, alachlor, and metolachlor. The isolation procedure separated the chloroacetanilide metabolites from the parent herbicides during the elution from C18 cartridges using ethyl acetate for parent compounds, followed by methanol for the anionic metabolites. The metabolites were separated chromatographically using reversed-phase HPLC and analyzed by negative-ion MS using electrospray ionization in selected ion mode. Quantitation limits were 0.01 microgram/L for both the oxanilic and sulfonic acids based on a 100-mL water sample. This combination of methods represents an important advance in environmental analysis of chloroacetanilide-herbicide metabolites in surface water and groundwater for two reasons. First, anionic chloroacetanilide metabolites are a major class of degradation products that are readily leached to groundwater in agricultural areas. Second, anionic metabolites, which are not able to be analyzed by conventional methods such as liquid extraction and gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, are effectively analyzed by SPE and high-flow pneumatically assisted electrospray mass spectrometry. This paper reports the first HPLC/MS identification of these metabolites in surface water and groundwater.	1	pesticide
9377737	[Retrospective study of morbidity in a group professionally exposed to chlorotriazine herbicides].	Two different groups of workers involved, during the last 10 years, in the production or formulation of chlorotriazine herbicides have been retrospectively studied in order to verify the occurrence of diseases possibly related to Atrazine, Simazine, Propazine and Terbuthylazine exposure. A control group has been selected between clerical workers of the same plants. Exposure data have been collected during the last five years and some extrapolations have been performed to hypothesize the level of exposure in the preceeding years. Clinical findings and laboratory data obtained from ten year medical surveillance records have been evaluated to highlight possible differences between the investigated groups. A first close examination of the data concerning the anamnesis and clinical, hematochemical and functional reports of the three groups of investigated subjects does not show any pathological situation or symptoms specifically connected to chlorotriazine compounds exposure and/or significant differences between exposed and non exposed. A next series of statistical surveys involving some of the hematochemical indicators (RBC, WBC, Hb%, SGOT, SGPT, gamma GT) has been performed either on internal values of each group or on the average-values of the three groups differently exposed (production, formulation, control). The first survey was a longitudinal study, the second one was a cross sectional one. Both the investigations have excluded significant differences attributable to the occupational exposure.	1	pesticide
9399420	Determination of the distribution of malathion in rats following various routes of administration by whole-body electronic autoradiography.	The distribution of [14C]-malathion, an organophosphorus pesticide, in rats after intravenous, oral and dermal administration was carried out using electronic autoradiography of whole body sections of treated animals. The study indicated that a major difference in the disposition of [14C]-malathion occurred following various routes of administration to rats. Following intravenous administration, the liver and kidney accumulated extremely high levels of the chemical. After oral administration, [14C]-malathion absorption from the stomach was slow and its excretion followed mostly the fecal route. Dermal application of [14C]-malathion may represent a high risk for exposure to the organophosphorus pesticide where the entire skin, not only the site of application, may act as reservoir for the compound.	1	pesticide
9417768	Accumulation of chlorpyrifos on residential surfaces and toys accessible to children.	Quantitative examination of major pathways and routes of exposure to pesticides is essential for determining human risk. The current study was conducted in two apartments and examines the accumulation of the pesticide chlorpyrifos in childrens' toys after the time suggested for reentry after application. It has been established for the first time that a semivolatile pesticide will accumulate on and in toys and other sorbant surfaces in a home via a two-phase physical process that continues for at least 2 weeks postapplication. A summation of the above for a 3-6-year-old child yielded an estimated nondietary total dose of 208 microg/kg/day. Potential exposure from the inhalation pathway was negligible, while dermal and nondietary oral doses from playing with toys contributed to 39 and 61% of the total dose, respectively. If children with high frequency mouthing behavior are considered as candidates for acute exposure to chlorpyrifos residues, the estimated acute dose could be as high as 356 microg/kg/day. Routine reapplication of pesticides could lead to continued accumulation in toys and other sorbant surfaces, e.g., pillows, with large sorbant reservoirs, which can become a long-term source of exposure to a child. Estimates of a child's nondietary exposure to chlorpyrifos associated with toys and other sorbant surfaces for a period of 1 week following application appear to be of public health concern, and studies of actual childhood exposure from this pathway are warranted in the home environment. The above information should be used to determine if current procedures for postapplication reentry are sufficient and to evaluate the need for procedures to store frequently used household toys, pillows, and other sorbant objects during insecticidal application.	1	pesticide
9420527	Male pesticide exposure and pregnancy outcome.	Potential health effects of agricultural pesticide use include reproductive outcomes. For the Ontario Farm Family Health Study, the authors sampled Ontario farms from the 1986 Canadian Census of Agriculture, identified farm couples, and obtained questionnaire data concerning farm activities, reproductive health experience, and chemical applications. Male farm activities in the period from 3 months before conception through the month of conception were evaluated in relation to miscarriage, preterm delivery, and small-for-gestational-age births. Among the 1,898 couples with complete data (64% response), 3,984 eligible pregnancies were identified. Miscarriage was not associated with chemical activities overall but was increased in combination with reported use of thiocarbamates, carbaryl, and unclassified pesticides on the farm. Preterm delivery was also not strongly associated with farm chemical activities overall, except for mixing or applying yard herbicides (odds ratio = 2.1, 95% confidence interval 1.0-4.4). Combinations of activities with a variety of chemicals (atrazine, glyphosate, organophosphates, 4-[2,4-dichlorophenoxy] butyric acid, and insecticides) generated odds ratios of two or greater. No associations were found between farm chemicals and small-for-gestational-age births or altered sex ratio. Based on these data, despite limitations in exposure assessment, the authors encourage continued evaluation of male exposures, particularly in relation to miscarriage and preterm delivery.	1	pesticide
9430117	Dosage differential effects of permethrin impregnated into bednets on pyrethroid resistant and susceptible genotypes of the mosquito Anopheles stephensi.	Effects of bednets impregnated with permethrin 200 mg and 500 mg/m2 on pyrethroid resistant and susceptible strains of Anopheles stephensi and their F1 hybrid progeny were studied, using free-flying female mosquitoes of these three genotypes, in a room with a human subject under a polyester net, having one of his arms in contact with the treated netting. Unexpectedly an apparently higher feeding rate, but lower knockdown and mortality rates, of mosquitoes were obtained for each of the three genotypes with the higher concentration of 500 mg/m2 compared with the lower dose of 200 mg/m2. At the lower dose there was 100% mortality 24 h after exposure of all three genotypes, suggesting that there would not be selection for resistance at this dose. However, at the higher dose there was significantly higher mortality of the susceptible strain than of the F1 hybrids, suggesting incomplete recessiveness of this resistance and that there would therefore be effective selection for resistance by this dose. When female mosquitoes were confined in bioassay cones on treated netting, the resistant strain of An. stephensi showed significantly less irritability (scored as the time until first flight take-off) in response to each dose, as compared with the susceptible strain and F1 hybrids. The higher dose provoked more irritation of each genotype; this could explain the greater knockdown and mortality rates of mosquitoes exposed to the lower dose which was less irritating and hence more effectively insecticidal. Thus a dose of 200 mg/m2 is preferable to 500 mg/m2 for malaria vector control.	1	pesticide
9474559	Susceptibility of Lutzomyia longipalpis (Diptera: Psychodidae) to selected insecticides in an endemic focus of visceral leishmaniasis in Venezuela.	A field population of Lutzomyia longipalpis from La Rinconada, Lara State, an endemic focus of visceral leishmaniasis in Venezuela, was tested for susceptibility to organochlorine (DDT 2%), carbamate (propoxur 0.01%), organophosphate (malathion 2%, fenitrothion 1%, and pirimiphos methyl 1%), and pyrethroid (deltamethrin 0.06%, lambdacyhalothrin 0.06%, and permethrin 0.2%) insecticides. Susceptibility to the insecticides tested was evaluated in the field population of L. longipalpis and compared with a laboratory reference strain. The (LT95) to propoxur and malathion insecticides for the field population was lower than the LT95 for the laboratory reference strain, demonstrating high susceptibility to these compounds. A low level of resistance at LT50 (< 3-fold) was found for fenitrothion, pirimiphos methyl, and permethrin insecticides, but no resistance was detected at LT95. No significant resistance at the LT50 and LT95 was detected for the pyrethroids deltamethrin and lambdacyhalothrin. The susceptibility levels of L. longipalpis to the insecticides tested are discussed in view of a future control program against endophilic vectors of leishmaniases based on the use of pesticides.	1	pesticide
9478089	The role of respiratory muscles in the impairment of the respiratory system function in the workers of a chemical plant division producing pesticides.	Workers of a chemical plant department producing dust and liquid pesticides (37 males and 17 females) exposed to dust containing free silica, organic solvents and active substances, among others: organophosphate compounds, pyrethroids, triazines, carbamates and dithiocarbamates, 2,4-D, captan, carboxine, carbendazim and dodine were studied. Spirometric investigations, including evaluation of vital capacity (VC), 1 second forced expiratory volume (FEV1) and its percentage index (FEV1%VC), peak expiratory flow and maximal end-expiratory flow (MEF25), were performed directly at the workplace. At the same time mouth inspiratory pressures (MIP) and maximal expiratory pressures (MEP) were evaluated. Chronic bronchitis (according to BMRC questionnaire) was diagnosed in every second worker, and in 11 males and females obstructive impairment of pulmonary function was established; 41% of females and 27% of males were found to have diminished peak expiratory flow. Maximal inspiratory pressures were significantly lower both in the studies males (p < 0.001) and females (p < 0.02) than those in the control groups and amounted to 74.4 +/- 21.5 and 58.1 +/- 24.3 cm H2O, respectively. Maximal expiratory pressures were also significantly lower in the studied males (p < 0.001) and females (p < 0.05) and amounted to 116.6 +/- 28.4 and 74.5 +/- 17.9 cm H2O, respectively. Significant correlation between decreased PEF and the force of expiratory muscles-MEP (In males r = 0.3279, p < 0.05; In females r = 0.7049, p < 0.01) was founded. The investigations performed at the workplace allow the assumption that work at the production of pesticides may result in impairment of pulmonary ventilation, development of chronic bronchitis as well as impaired function of respiratory muscles.	1	pesticide
9503636	Dissipation of some citrus selective residual herbicides in an irrigation well.	The aim of this work was to study the behaviour of some of the main citrus selective residual herbicides in the water of an irrigation well. The chemicals used were: atrazine, simazine, terbuthylazine, terbutryn, terbumeton, bromacil and diuron. The simetric triazines and bromacil were analyzed by gas chromatography and diuron by HPLC. The mentioned pesticides were introduced in the well in order to simulate a point-source contamination. Levels of contamination of the well due to herbicide application were about 1 mg/l, however, dissipation of the herbicides was almost complete 8 days after application, except for bromacil and diuron which persisted longer than the s-triazines.	1	pesticide
9504393	Effects of the alpha subunit on imidacloprid sensitivity of recombinant nicotinic acetylcholine receptors.	1. Imidacloprid is a new insecticide with selective toxicity for insects over vertebrates. Recombinant (alpha4beta2) chicken neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) and a hybrid nicotinic AChR formed by co-expression of a Drosophila melanogaster neuronal alpha subunit (SAD) with the chicken beta2 subunit were heterologously expressed in Xenopus oocytes by nuclear injection of cDNAs. The agonist actions of imidacloprid and other nicotinic AChR ligands ((+)-epibatidine, (-)-nicotine and acetylcholine) were compared on both recombinant nicotinic AChRs by use of two-electrode, voltage-clamp electrophysiology. 2. Imidacloprid alone of the 4 agonists behaved as a partial agonist on the alpha4beta2 receptor; (+)-epibatidine, (-)-nicotine and acetylcholine were all full, or near full, agonists. Imidacloprid was also a partial agonist of the hybrid Drosophila SAD chicken beta2 receptor, as was (-)-nicotine, whereas (+)-epibatidine and acetylcholine were full agonists. 3. The EC50 of imidacloprid was decreased by replacing the chicken alpha4 subunit with the Drosophila SAD alpha subunit. This alpha subunit substitution also resulted in an increase in the EC50 for (+)-epibatidine, (-)-nicotine and acetylcholine. Thus, the Drosophila (SAD) alpha subunit contributes to the greater apparent affinity of imidacloprid for recombinant insect/vertebrate nicotinic AChRs. 4. Imidacloprid acted as a weak antagonist of ACh-mediated responses mediated by SADbeta2 hybrid receptors and as a weak potentiator of ACh responses mediated by alpha4beta2 receptors. This suggests that imidacloprid has complex effects upon these recombinant receptors, determined at least in part by the alpha subunit.	1	pesticide
9535186	Gas chromatographic method for determination of uracil herbicides in roots of Echinacea angustifolia Moench (Asteraceae).	A GC/NPD method and a rapid screening TLC method were developed for the simultaneous determination of uracil herbicide residues (bromacil, lenacil, terbacil) in the roots of Echinacea angustifolia Moench (Asteraceae). The uracil herbicide residues were extracted into acetone. After evaporation of acetone from the acetone-water extract the residue was dissolved in water-methanol (5:1 v/v). Cyclohexane was used for removal of the non-polar co-extractives in the sample matrix. After separation of the cyclohexane phase the uracil herbicide residues were extracted into chloroform. This extract was purified on a Florisil column, and residues were eluted with dichloromethane-acetone (9:1, v/v). The cleaned up extract was analysed by the GC/NPD method on a capillary column DB-1 using atrazine as internal standard. A minimum recovery of 70% was attained for contamination levels of 0.02-0.40 mg kg(-1).	1	pesticide
9599457	Concentrations and spatial variations of cyclodienes and other organochlorines in herring and perch from the Baltic Sea.	Herring (Clupea harengus) and perch (Perca fluviatilis) were collected in the northern and southern Baltic Sea and analyzed for the presence of the cyclodiene pesticides chlordane (CHL), heptachlor, aldrin, dieldrin, endrin, isodrin, endosulfan and mirex, as well as other organochlorine contaminants, hexachlorocyclohexanes (HCHs), DDTs, hexachlorobenzene (HCBz) and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in order to investigate concentrations, accumulation and differences in geographical distribution. In the northern part of the Baltic Sea, Gulf of Bothnia, herring were collected at two pelagic stations, one in the Bothnian Bay (BB) and the other in the Bothnian Sea (BS), respectively; perch were collected at four coastal locations along the Swedish coast. All these locations were selected to represent background areas except one in the vicinity of an industrialised and contaminated area. Both specimens were also caught in the southern part of the Baltic Sea, in the Gulf of Gdansk (GG), Poland, a potentially highly polluted area. From the eight cyclodiene pesticides analyzed, three were detected in herring and perch samples, including 12 different CHL-related compounds, dieldrin and mirex. To our knowledge, it is the first time that mirex has been detected in samples from the Baltic Sea. Neither heptachlor, aldrin, endrin, isodrin nor endosulfan were found. However, HCHs, DDTs, HCBz and PCBs were found in every sample investigated, and the concentrations ranged e.g. for the cyclodiene chemicals dieldrin and CHL-related compounds from 30 to 170 ng/g lipid and for PCBs from 360 to 5400 ng/g lipid, both fish species included. Differences in contamination burden between the sites can be seen, e.g. for herring the BB and GG locals were similar, and generally lower than BS for all chemicals except that of DDT where GG was the highest. For the perch samples the industrialised location had markedly higher concentrations of HCBz and PCBs than the other locations. This species also identifies GG as the most DDT contaminated site among the three studied areas.	1	pesticide
9615543	Resistance to organophosphorus and pyrethroid insecticides in Culex pipiens (Diptera: Culicidae) from Tunisia.	"Resistance to the organophosphates temephos and chlorpyrifos, the carbamate propoxur, the pyrethroid permethrin, and the organochloride DDT was investigated in Tunisian populations of Culex pipiens pipiens (L.) collected between 1990 and 1996. Resistance to temephos was uniformly low, reaching 10-fold in the most resistant population. In contrast, resistance to chlorpyrifos was highly variable, reaching the highest level (> 10,000-fold) recorded worldwide. The chlorpyrifos-resistant populations also were highly resistant to propoxur. Some populations also showed high resistance to permethrin (up to 5,000-fold) and moderate resistance to DDT (approximately 20-fold). Bioassays conducted in the presence of synergists showed that increased detoxification had only a minor role in resistance, although several over-produced esterases known to be involved in organophosphate resistance were detected. To better understand the factors influencing the distribution of resistance in Tunisia, the polymorphism of genes involved in organophosphate resistance (i.e., over-produced esterases and insensitive acetylcholinesterase) was investigated in relation to the genetic structure of populations studied by analyzing the electrophoretic polymorphism of ""neutral"" genes. Over the area studied, and despite a high level of gene flow, resistance genes showed a patchy distribution. Results are discussed in relation to the selection pressure caused by insecticide treatments."	1	pesticide
9673932	Field evaluation of cyfluthrin and malathion 96 TG ULV spraying at high-rise flats on dengue vectors in Malaysia.	Cyfluthrin (Solfac ULO15) and malathion 96 TG were evaluated against sentinel sugar-fed adults and 4th-instar larvae of Aedes aegypti at high-rise flats in Malaysia by ULV spraying. The impact of both insecticides on field populations of Aedes spp. (Ae. aegypti and Ae. albopictus) larvae were monitored weekly using containers. Both cyfluthrin and malathion 96 TG showed adulticidal effects but cyfluthrin showed more significant larvicidal effect than malathion 96 TG (P < 0.05).	1	pesticide
9681970	Mode of carcinogenic action of pesticides inducing thyroid follicular cell tumors in rodents.	Of 240 pesticides screened for carcinogenicity by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Office of Pesticide Programs, at least 24 (10%) produce thyroid follicular cell tumors in rodents. Thirteen of the thyroid carcinogens also induce liver tumors, mainly in mice, and 9 chemicals produce tumors at other sites. Some mutagenic data are available on all 24 pesticides producing thyroid tumors. Mutagenicity does not seem to be a major determinant in thyroid carcinogenicity, except for possibly acetochlor; evidence is less convincing for ethylene thiourea and etridiazole. Studies on thyroid-pituitary functioning, including indications of thyroid cell growth and/or changes in thyroxine, triiodothyronine, or thyroid-stimulating hormone levels, are available on 19 pesticides. No such antithyroid information is available for etridiazole, N-octyl bicycloheptene dicarboximide, terbutryn, triadimefon, and trifluralin. Of the studied chemicals, only bromacil lacks antithyroid activity under study conditions. Intrathyroidal and extrathyroidal sites of action are found: amitrole, ethylene thiourea, and mancozeb are thyroid peroxidase inhibitors; and acetochlor, clofentezine, fenbuconazole, fipronil, pendimethalin, pentachloronitrobenzene, prodiamine, pyrimethanil, and thiazopyr seem to enhance the hepatic metabolism and excretion of thyroid hormone. Thus, with 12 pesticides that mode of action judgments can be made, 11 disrupt thyroid-pituitary homeostasis only; no chemical is mutagenic only; and acetochlor may have both antithyroid and some mutagenic activity. More information is needed to identify other potential antithyroid modes of thyroid carcinogenic action.	1	pesticide
9683892	Comparison of the cost-effectiveness of vaccines and insecticide impregnation of mosquito nets for the prevention of malaria.	The cost-effectiveness of two different methods of prevention of morbidity and mortality due to Plasmodium falciparum malaria, vaccination and impregnation of mosquito nets with permethrin, was compared. The analysis was performed with reference to the cohort of all children born in The Gambia in 1990 and protected for 5 years, using estimates of costs from studies in The Gambia. The vaccine was assumed to be given in three doses before the age of 6 months, through the Expanded Programme of Immunization, and to remain effective up to the age of 5 years. The bednets were assumed to be impregnated at 6-monthly intervals over the 5-year period. The expected number of deaths and attacks due to P. falciparum in the first 5 years of the 1990 cohort's lives were estimated from published literature. The numbers of deaths and attacks averted by the two strategies were then estimated by decision analysis, using the best estimates of effectiveness available in the literature. The vaccine strategy would have averted an estimated 743 deaths and 50,502 malaria attacks, whereas the net impregnation would have averted 1537 deaths and 69,415 attacks. The estimated cost per death averted was U.S. $252 for the vaccine and U.S. $711 for net impregnation. The estimated cost per P. falciparum attack averted was U.S. $3.71 for the vaccine and U.S. $15.75 for net impregnation. Sensitivity analysis, examining the effect of varying the vaccine cost or insecticide cost, the efficacy of the vaccine or net impregnation, and the percentage coverage of the population, confirmed the greater cost-effectiveness of the vaccine strategy for either of the outcomes examined under the conditions of the model. However, limitations on the absolute number of deaths and malaria attacks which can averted by currently available vaccines demonstrate that a vaccine of higher efficacy would be highly desirable.	1	pesticide
9705902	Modeling the developmental neurotoxicity of chlorpyrifos in vitro: macromolecule synthesis in PC12 cells.	Exposure to apparently subtoxic doses of chlorpyrifos during late stages of brain development affects cell acquisition through a mixture of cholinergic and noncholinergic mechanisms. In the current study, we modeled these effects in vitro using rat pheochromocytoma (PC12), a cell line that, upon nerve-growth factor (NGF)-induced differentiation, develops the appearance and function of cholinergic target neurons, including the expression of cholinergic receptors. In the undifferentiated state (no NGF), chlorpyrifos evoked an immediate (1 h), robust, concentration-dependent inhibition of DNA synthesis as evaluated by [3H]thymidine incorporation, with a threshold of 0.5-1.5 microg/ml. Continuous exposure for up to 24 h maintained the same degree of inhibition. The effects were selective for DNA synthesis, as much smaller inhibitions were found for synthesis of RNA or protein. In contrast, direct cholinergic stimulation of the cells by 100 microM nicotine had much smaller effects on DNA synthesis. Moreover, the effects of chlorpyrifos on DNA synthesis could not be blocked by nicotinic or muscarinic antagonists, confirming that the effects were not mediated primarily through cholinergic hyperstimulation consequent to cholinesterase inhibition or to direct receptor-mediated effects. When PC12 cells underwent NGF-induced differentiation, the rate of cell replication fell dramatically and neurite extension was evident both from morphological examination and from biochemical markers (increased protein:DNA ratio). After introduction of NGF, chlorpyrifos maintained its ability to inhibit DNA synthesis acutely. However, the ability to inhibit RNA and protein synthesis initially intensified and then disappeared, indicating a shift in macromolecular targets as differentiation proceeded. We also tested the effects of long-term exposure to chlorpyrifos during the process of NGF-induced differentiation. Continuous chlorpyrifos exposure resulted in severe reductions in macromolecule synthesis and a deficit in the total number of cells, effects similar to those seen with chlorpyrifos treatment in vivo. At the highest concentrations, neurite extension was also inhibited. Our results suggest that chlorpyrifos can interact directly with developing neural cells to inhibit replication and neuritic outgrowth.	1	pesticide
9713382	Reproductive effects in mink (Mustela vison) exposed to the pesticides Lindane, Carbofuran and Pentachlorophenol in a multigeneration study.	The mammalian reproductive system is sensitive to exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals, particularly during sexual maturation. The purpose of this study was to examine reproductive function in second and third generation male and female mink exposed to pesticides from conception to maturity. The mink were fed untreated feed or feed treated with Lindane (1 mg kg-1 day-1), Carbofuran (0.05 mg kg-1 day-1) or Pentachlorophenol (1 mg kg-1 day-1) from the time they were weaned. The second generation mink had also been exposed to the pesticides in utero and from their mother's milk as their mothers were similarly fed pesticides, from 3 weeks before breeding. The third generation mink were the offspring of mink (second generation females) who had themselves undergone long-term exposure to pesticides from conception onwards. Blood samples and endocrine tissues were obtained at necropsy from both generations of mink. No overt signs of toxicity were seen. The pesticides did not affect the percentage of mink mated. Lindane treatment reduced the proportion of mated mink that subsequently whelped (P < 0.1) and the litter size of mink that whelped (P < 0.05). Testis size was reduced in the Lindane-treated, third generation males (P < 0.05). Serum concentrations of cortisol, testosterone and oestradiol were not affected by any pesticide treatment; however, thyroxine concentration was reduced by Pentachlorophenol (P < 0.05). In conclusion, exposure of mink to Lindane from conception resulted in a decrease in reproductive efficiency when they were subsequently mated, leading to a 60% reduction in the number of kits born.	1	pesticide
9754664	Origin and prevention of airport malaria in France.	Since 1969, 63 cases of airport malaria have been reported in Western Europe, 24 of which occurred in France. Most were due to Plasmodium falciparum. In 1994, 7 cases occurred in and around Roissy Charles de Gaulle airport (CDG), showing 4 types of contamination: among employees working on airstrips or opening containers, among residents living near the airport, among people living at some distance from the airport after a secondary transport of vectors, and by vectors transported in luggage. In-flight or stop-over infection is not considered as airport malaria. The infective anophelines originated from airports where malaria transmission occurs, mostly in subsaharan Africa. A tentative list is given taking into account aerial traffic with France. Surveys in the airports of Dakar (Senegal), Cotonou (Benin), Abidjan (Cote d'Ivoire) and Yaoundé (Cameroun) found potential vectors in all of these from July to September. After 1994, the Contrôle Sanitaire aux Frontières (CSF) in charge at CDG concentrated its efforts on the flights at risk, as well as information and sensitization of airline companies, which resulted in 73% and 87% of the flights at risk being properly disinsected in 1995 and 1996. Despite pyrethroid resistance in Anopheles gambiae s.s. in West Africa, the efficacy of aircraft spraying with permethrin aerosols is still acceptable. However, surveillance of resistance should be improved and search for nonpyrethroid insecticides suitable for aircraft strongly encouraged.	1	pesticide
9756688	Abiotic degradation of halobenzonitriles: investigation of the photolysis in solution.	This paper presents first experiments of laboratory investigations of the photodegradation by direct photolysis (lambda>290 nm) of cholorotahlonil, dichlobenil, chloroxynil, bromoxynil, and ioxynil in aqueous, pH-buffered, and organic solutions and the calculation of the quantum yields. The photolysis of chlorothalonil in water is low, with a corresponding low quantum yield (Phi=0.0001). Dichlobenil is photostable under the laboratory conditions used. The photoreactivity of bromoxynil and ioxynil was found to be comparable in aqueous solutions and about three times lower with respect to chloroxynil. The quantum yields obtained in water of chloroxynil, bromoxynil, and ioxynil are Phi=0.0060, 0.0093, and 0.0024, respectively. Half-lives of the pesticides in the environment with respect to direct irradiation are estimated using UV spectra and quantum yields as input variables obtained in the laboratory.	1	pesticide
9768246	[Determination of resistance mechanism in Culex quinquefasciatus Say 1823 and its operational implication in the correct use of insecticides for its control].	Resistance to organophosphorous insecticides such as malathion, chlorpyrihos, and pyrimiphos-methyl; pyrethroids such as deltametrine and lambda cialotrine; and the propoxur carbamate was determined in 4 strain of Culex quinquefasciatus of the Eastern, Central and Western parts of Cuba. The increase of esterase enzymes was the main mechanism involved in resistance, followed by altered acetylcholinesterase (AChe). Gene frequencies were high for esterases (1), and moderate for acetylcholinesterase (0.52) in the four strains under study, as an average. Bioassays showed resistance to malathion and propoxur. The use of DEF as esterase inhibitor showed that pyrimiphos-methyl was not affected by this mechanism of resistance, and chlorpyriphos was slightly affected. After 5 years of using pyrethroids such as deltametrine and lambda cialotrine, these are still useful agents for the control of C. quinquefasciatus; the alternate use of these and pyrimiphos-methyl or chlorpyriphos could prevent the development of resistance in a short or medium term.	1	pesticide
9772744	Determination of malathion residues in some medicinal plants by liquid chromatography with gas chromatographic/mass spectrometric confirmation.	A method for determining malathion residues by reversed-phase liquid chromatography (LC) using methanol only as mobile phase is described. Malathion [diethyl(dimethoxyphosphinothiol)succinate] was applied on marjoram, mint, and chamomile. Residues were detected in fresh and dry crops by LC and confirmed by gas-LC/mass spectrometry. Average recovery of malathion was 85%. Residues detected in fresh marjoram, mint, and chamomile were 0.18, 0.23, and 0.083 mg/kg, respectively. Residues detected in dry marjoram and mint were 0.024 and 0.050 mg/kg, respectively. No malathion residues were detected in dry chamomile. The minimum detectable concentration with this method is 0.013 mg/kg. The study suggests it is safe to use malathion up to 2 sprays per season provided the crop is harvested not less than 3 weeks from the last spray.	1	pesticide
9804902	DNA damaging effects of pesticides measured by the single cell gel electrophoresis assay (comet assay) and the chromosomal aberration test, in CHOK1 cells.	One herbicide (isoproturon), two fungicides (carbendazim and chlorothalonil) and etoposide (an effective antitumor agent used as a positive control), were tested for their ability to induce cytotoxic and genotoxic effects in Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHOK1) cells. Etoposide induced DNA damage detectable both by the alkaline Single Cell Gel Electrophoresis (SCGE) assay and the chromosomal aberration (CA) test in absence of noticeable cytotoxicity. With the SCGE assay, a clear induction of DNA damage was observed for chlorothalonil within a 0.2 to 1 microM concentration range. In the CA test, chlorothalonil gave also positive results, inducing mainly chromosome breaks. In contrast, no DNA damage was observed with the SCGE assay for carbendazim and isoproturon. In the CA test, carbendazim induced only numerical aberrations in the concentration range of 25 microM to 100 microM, and isoproturon did not induce any significant increase in CA. In conclusion, chlorothalonil appears genotoxic in proliferative CHOK1 cells, and as expected, the aneugenic compound, carbendazim, did not induce DNA strand breaks in the SCGE assay.	1	pesticide
9818398	Validation of an immunoassay method for the determination of traces of carbaryl in vegetable and fruit extracts by liquid chromatography with photodiode array and mass spectrometric detection.	A competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method for carbaryl quantitation in crop extracts was validated by liquid chromatography (LC) with diode array detection (DAD). For this purpose, six crops (banana, carrot, green bean, orange, peach and potato) were chosen for recovery and reproducibility studies. The general sample preparation included extraction with methanol followed by liquid-liquid partitioning and clean-up on Celite-charcoal adsorbent column of the vegetable extracts. ELISA samples consisted of a diluted LC extract in assay phosphate buffer (pH 7.5). The potential effect of methanol in these samples was evaluated. It was observed that a maximum content of 10% methanol present in the assay buffer could be tolerated without expressive losses in the ELISA performance. Under these conditions, a IC50 approximately 1.48 micrograms l-1 was obtained. A minimum matrix effect with a 1:50 dilution of the methanolic extracts in assay buffer was noticed, except for green bean samples that inhibited completely the assay. For the vegetable extracts, the ELISA sensitivities varied from 3.9 to 5.7 micrograms l-1, and good recoveries (82-96%) with R.S.D.s ranging from 5.7 to 12.1% were found. An excellent correlation between the LC-DAD and ELISA techniques was obtained. The confirmation of the carbaryl in less concentrated samples was achieved by LC-mass spectrometry interfaced with atmospheric pressure chemical ionisation. The [M + H]+ = 202 and [M + H-57]+ = 145 ions, equivalent to the protonated molecular and 1-naphthol ions, respectively, were used to carbaryl identification in these samples.	1	pesticide
9846093	[Occupational eczema in gardeners and greenhouse workers in the county of Funen].	The aims of the study were to assess the prevalence of and association between occupational dermatitis and possible risk factors in gardeners and greenhouse workers living on Funen, describe the distribution of different types of eczema and detect the allergens most commonly involved. A cross-sectional study, based on a postal questionnaire and subsequent patch testing of selected persons was carried out in 1958 gardeners. The response rate was 84.6%, and among 250 persons patch tested the most frequently sensitizing occupational allergens were plants of the Compositae family and the fungicide captan. Allergic occupational contact dermatitis was suspected in 43 persons (17%). Irritant eczemas outnumbered allergic eczemas and both were most often caused by plants. The lifetime prevalence of occupational dermatitis was 19.6%. Occupational mucosal symptoms, working with Compositae and training as a gardener in females were significantly associated with an increased prevalence of occupational eczema, whereas sex, age and personal atopy seemed to be of less importance.	1	pesticide
9846993	Delayed febrile effects of chlorpyrifos: is there cross-tolerance to bacterial lipopolysaccharide?	Oral chlorpyrifos (CHP) induces hypothermia followed by a fever that persists for several days in the rat. To understand the neuro-immune mechanisms of CHP-induced fever, we compared the tolerance and cross-tolerance between CHP and the fever elicited by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (Escherichia coli). Female rats were administered the corn oil (CO) vehicle or CHP (10 mg/kg; p.o.) daily for 4 days while core temperature (Tc) and motor activity (MA) were monitored by telemetry. There was a reduction in Tc followed by an elevation the next day after each CHP treatment. The day after the last CHP treatment, rats were administered saline or 50 microg/kg LPS (i.p.). CHP-treated rats had a smaller LPS fever that was attributed to their elevated baseline Tc. In another study, rats were dosed with saline or LPS daily for three days. By the time of the third LPS injection there was no febrile response, indicating tolerance to LPS. Rats were then dosed with CO or CHP (10 mg/kg) 24 h after the third LPS treatment. LPS-tolerant rats displayed an accentuated hypothermic and febrile response to CHP. Plasma cholinesterase activity was unaffected by repeated LPS treatment, suggesting that the metabolism of CHP in the liver was unaffected by LPS. Overall, the neural-immune mechanisms for LPS fever is distinct from that of CHP in view of marked difference in mechanisms of tolerance.	1	pesticide
9868624	Antimicrobial efficacy of biocides tested on skin using an ex-vivo test.	An ex-vivo test was used to evaluate the activity of antimicrobials against three microorganisms, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus. The ex-vivo test is a carrier test using freshly excised animal skin samples maintained in viable conditions for a short period of time. Skin samples came from a veterinary practice and were excised from either dogs or cats. The antimicrobial activity of povidone iodine, chlorhexidine diacetate, cetrimide and benzalkonium chloride was also evaluated with suspension and glass-carrier tests. Generally, the activity of the antimicrobials tested was reduced when applied to the skin surface. Apart from povidone iodine (2%) against S. aureus, the biocides investigated failed to achieve a 5 log10 reduction in bacterial titre when tested with the ex-vivo method. There was no significant difference in reduction of bacterial titres after treatment with antimicrobials between the glass-carrier and the suspension tests. Furthermore, the drying process of bacterial inoculum was less detrimental on skin than on glass surfaces. This study confirmed that the activity of a biocide tested in suspension or on an inanimate surface did not reflect its activity when tested on skin. Further development of the ex-vivo test may be useful, especially for testing the antimicrobial activity of formulations with antiseptic properties.	1	pesticide
9888965	The toxicity of glyphosate and several glyphosate formulations to four species of southwestern Australian frogs.	The acute toxicity of technical-grade glyphosate acid, glyphosate isopropylamine, and three glyphosate formulations was determined for adults of one species and tadpoles of four species of southwestern Australian frogs in 48-h static/renewal tests. The 48-h LC50 values for Roundup(R) Herbicide (MON 2139) tested against tadpoles of Crinia insignifera, Heleioporus eyrei, Limnodynastes dorsalis, and Litoria moorei ranged between 8.1 and 32.2 mg/L (2.9 and 11.6 mg/L glyphosate acid equivalent [AE]), while the 48-h LC50 values for Roundup(R) Herbicide tested against adult and newly metamorphosed C. insignifera ranged from 137-144 mg/L (49.4-51.8 mg/L AE). Touchdown(R) Herbicide (4 LC-E) tested against tadpoles of C. insignifera, H. eyrei, L. dorsalis, and L. moorei was slightly less toxic than Roundup(R) with 48-h LC50 values ranging between 27.3 and 48.7 mg/L (9.0 and 16.1 mg/L AE). Roundup(R) Biactive (MON 77920) was practically nontoxic to tadpoles of the same four species producing 48-h LC50 values of 911 mg/L (328 mg/L AE) for L. moorei and >1,000 mg/L (>360mg/L AE) for C. insignifera, H. eyrei, and L. dorsalis. Glyphosate isopropylamine was practically nontoxic, producing no mortality among tadpoles of any of the four species over 48 h, at concentrations between 503 and 684 mg/L (343 and 466 mg/L AE). The toxicity of technical-grade glyphosate acid (48-h LC50, 81.2-121 mg/L) is likely to be due to acid intolerance. Slight differences in species sensitivity were evident, with L. moorei tadpoles showing greater sensitivity than tadpoles of the other four species. Adult and newly emergent metamorphs were less sensitive than tadpoles.	1	pesticide
10049857	Involvement of two plasmids in the degradation of carbaryl by Arthrobacter sp. strain RC100.	A bacterium capable of utilizing carbaryl (1-naphthyl N-methylcarbamate) as the sole carbon source was isolated from carbaryl-treated soil. This bacterium was characterized taxonomically as Arthrobacter and was designated strain RC100. RC100 hydrolyzes the N-methylcarbamate linkage to 1-naphthol, which was further metabolized via salicylate and gentisate. Strain RC100 harbored three plasmids (designated pRC1, pRC2, and pRC3). Mutants unable to degrade carbaryl arose at a high frequency after treating the culture with mitomycin C. All carbaryl-hydrolysis-deficient mutants (Cah-) lacked pRC1, and all 1-naphthol-utilization-deficient mutants (Nat-) lacked pRC2. The plasmid-free strain RC107 grew on gentisate as a carbon source. These two plasmids could be transferred to Cah- mutants or Nat- mutants by conjugation, resulting in the restoration of the Cah and Nah phenotypes.	1	pesticide
10325602	[Study on the determination of N-methylcarbamate insecticides in milk by HPLC].	A high performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method using ultraviolet detector (210nm) for simultaneous determination of 5 carbamate insecticides in milk has been developed. Five carbamate insecticides aldicarb, MTMC, carbofuran, carbaryl and MIPC were separated on a reverse phase column (ODS) using methanol-water (45:55) mobile phase, and the resolution was higher than 2.23. The linearity for NMCs standards was good (r = 0.9944-0.9963) and the detection limits of 5 carbamate insecticides were 0.75-3.00 ng. Samples of milk were extracted with acetone. The extraction and partition were combined into one step by saturating the extraction solvent with NaCl and at the same time driving away the water by dichloromethane. The extract was cleaned up by gel permeation (Bio-Beads S-X3). The conditions of Bio-Beads S-X3 column for NMCs multiresidues analysis were studied. The elution solvent was ethyl acetate-cyclohexane (1: 1). The average recoveries of 5 NMCs in samples of milk were above 80%.	1	pesticide
10357211	Selection and characterisation of membranes by means of an immunofiltration assay. Application to the rapid and sensitive determination of the insecticide carbaryl.	The characterisation and selection of membranes by means of an immunofiltration assay is described. The chemical composition of the membranes was: nitro-cellulose, polyamide, polyvinylidene difluoride, polyethersulfone, cellulose acetate, regenerated cellulose, cellulose nitrate, and glass fibre. In order to characterise the membranes according to their binding capacity, immobilisation stability, sensitivity and hydrodynamic properties, two basic immunofiltration formats were performed. In both formats, enzyme label (horseradish peroxidase, HRP) and colorimetric detection were used. In the immobilised antibody format, three monoclonal antibodies (mAb) against the insecticide carbaryl were immobilised on the membranes by passive adsorption. In the immobilised hapten format, two haptens conjugated to bovine serum albumin (BSA) were immobilised. Immobilon-P was the best membrane with regard to the characterisation criteria and permitted the filtration of large volume (5.0 ml) through the membrane without release of the receptor. The immobilisation of the receptor (antibody or haptenic conjugate) was pH dependent. Good results with regard to mAb-antigen recognition, were obtained using 50 mM carbonate/bicarbonate buffer, pH 9.6. However, the most sensitive assays were achieved using, 10 mM phosphate buffer, 137 mM NaCl, 2.7 mM KCI (PBS), pH 7.4 as immobilisation buffer. Furthermore, all these results permit the choice of the best membrane for the rapid and sensitive determination of carbaryl. This study will assist the development of dipsticks, immunoelectrodes, membrane-based immunoreactors or immunoconcentration devices that are based on the use of membranes as immunosupports.	1	pesticide
10376353	Application of anterior pituitary cell culture in toxicological research.	High density plating procedure was used to evaluate the effect of atrazine on anterior pituitary cells of rats in monolayer culture. Collagenase-dispersed pituitary cells plated in suspension with medium-199 and 10% foetal calf serum attached quantitatively to plastic surfaces within 24 hours. Electron microscopy showed subpopulations of different cell types. After prolonged cultivation, most cells established small colonies with extensive contacts among them. Cell-to-cell formation of aggregates was significant and the colonies manifested morphological changes. The cells retained their enzymatic activity, converting testosterone into 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone by enzyme 5 alpha-reductase. Immunohistochemical techniques facilitated differentiation of gonadotrophs producing follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinising hormone (LH). Atrazine in concentrations of 5 to 50 micrograms/ml of medium was associated with a significant reduction in the number of viable cells within 72 hours. The results suggest that the pituitary cell culture may prove useful in toxicological testing of various toxic compounds and reduce or replace in vivo animal experiments.	1	pesticide
10394616	Complete mineralization of methylparathion by Pseudomonas sp. A3.	Organophosphorus insecticides are widely used in agriculture. Despite their biodegradable nature, some are highly toxic and their residues are found in the environment. Reports on the mineralization of a spectrum of these insecticides by a single potential strain are scarce. We have isolated a soil isolate, Pseudomonas sp. A3, through enrichment technique, able to degrade methylparathion (MP), malathion, monocrotophos, and Diazinon. The potential of this strain to mineralize MP as a carbon and/or phosphorus source has been evaluated. On hydrolysis of MP, the aromatic portion (p-nitrophenol) was used as a carbon and energy source whereas the alkyl moiety (dithiomethylphosphorothioate) was broken down for the phosphorus source. The results from the experiments involving [U-14C]p-nitrophenol provided the evidence for incorporation of carbon into the cellular constituents and release of CO2 from this insecticide. During the breakdown of MP, nitrite was released as a catabolic by-product.	1	pesticide
10404127	Morphological alterations in mouse testis by a single dose of malathion.	Malathion((R)) is a widely used organophosphorate agropesticide. In spite of its low toxicity for mammalian cells, it provokes cytogenetic and genotoxic damage both in vivo and in vitro. The effect of Malathion was analyzed in CF-1 young adult male mice. Commercial Malathion (96.6% purity) was injected intraperitoneally in a single dose (250 mg/kg body weight corresponding to 1/12 LD50). Four, 14, 18, and 26 days after injection animals were sacrificed to study epididymal sperm (count and morphology), testicular histology (percentage of depleted seminiferous tubules), and ultrastructural alterations in the germinal epithelium. The effect of Malathion on different germinal cell populations was studied. Teratozoospermia was induced by Malathion at all times studied. Spermatozoa midpiece and flagella were the most affected and at day 18 we observed less alterations of the head. The sperm count at different time intervals was significatively increased compared to controls and there was a parallel increase in depletion of the seminiferous tubules. In conclusion, all germinal cell populations studied were affected by Malathion. Malathion has a teratogenic effect on mice spermatid differentiation, which compromises mostly the flagella, perhaps due to an alkylating effect that disturbs the normal assembling of tail structural protein components. Apparently, the pachytene spermatocyte stage may be relatively more resistant to the pesticide. The Sertoli cells were affected by the insecticide and their damage at an ultrastructural level is highly significant. Cytoplasmatic vacuolization probably revealed metabolic alteration of these cells.	1	pesticide
10480122	Selection and characterization of temephos resistance in a population of Aedes aegypti from Tortola, British Virgin Islands.	A collection of Aedes aegypti from Tortola, British Virgin Islands, with a high level of temephos resistance (46.8-fold at the 95% lethal concentration [LC95]) was selected to higher resistance with temephos in the laboratory. After 13 generations of pressure, the temephos resistance ratio increased to 180.6 (LC95), whereas in the absence of selection pressure the resistance ratio declined to 8.5. Relatively low levels of resistance or cross-resistance to other organophosphate and carbamate insecticides, and a high level of resistance to the pyrethroid permethrin were also observed. Synergism tests implicated detoxifying esterases in temephos resistance and the presence of elevated esterase activity was confirmed by biochemical tests; however, no evidence was found of insensitive acetylcholinesterase. Mendelian crosses indicated that temephos resistance was inherited as a monofactorial trait. The presence of high levels of temephos and permethrin resistance in Ae. aegypti has important implications for Aedes control programs.	1	pesticide
10480121	Comparison of electrostatic versus nonelectrostatic ULV sprays of Aqua Reslin against Anopheles quadrimaculatus adults.	An electrostatic truck-mounted spray system (Spectrum, Houston, TX) and a nonelectrostatic spray system (Micro-Gen G-4, San Antonio, TX) were tested to determine the feasibility of electrostatically charging Aqua Reslin, a water-based permethrin insecticide, and ascertain whether an electrostatic charge would increase the efficiency of Aqua Reslin against Anopheles quadrimaculatus adults. Parameters tested for both machines included mean mass median diameter (MMD) of droplets, number of drops per cm2, and posttreatment percent mortality at 1, 12, and 24 h. Results indicated that the electrostatically charged droplets produced greater mortality at each distance and hour posttreatment. Correlation coefficients and linear equations were calculated for distance-mortality, MMD-mortality, drops per cm2-mortality, distance-drops per cm2, distance-MMD, and MMD-drops per cm2. Results indicated that the electrostatic drops demonstrated strong correlations between each paired variable, whereas the nonelectrostatic drops showed poor correlation between drops per cm2-mortality, distance-drops per cm2, and MMD-drops per cm2. However, from this trial, these differences cannot be attributed purely to the electrostatic charge because significant differences in droplet size can affect spray performance.	1	pesticide
10480332	Conversion of dieldrin to aldrin by intestinal bacteria in rats.	The present study provides the evidence that dieldrin is reductively metabolized to aldrin by intestinal bacteria in rats. When dieldrin was incubated with the cecal contents of rats, aldrin, a reduced metabolite of the epoxide, was isolated from the incubation mixture. The metabolite was identified unequivocally by UV and mass spectral comparison with an authentic sample, and on the basis of its TLC and HPLC behavior. The cecal contents of rats exhibited epoxide reductase activity toward dieldrin under anaerobic conditions. However, only marginal activity was observed under aerobic conditions. Four pure strains of intestinal bacteria exhibited epoxide reductase activities to varying degrees under anaerobic conditions. The highest activity was observed in Clostridium sporogenes. Cell-free extracts of the intestinal bacteria in rat cecal contents showed reductase activity when supplemented with both NAD(P)H and FMN under anaerobic conditions.	1	pesticide
10489696	Fungal utilization of organophosphate pesticides and their degradation by Aspergillus flavus and A. sydowii in soil.	Fungal species were isolated which utilize organophosphate pesticides, viz. phosphorothioic (pirimiphos-methyl and pyrazophos), phosphorodithioic (dimethoate and malathion), phosphonic (lancer) and phosphoric (profenfos) acid derivatives. Pesticide degradation was studied in vitro and in vivo (soil). Aspergillus flavus, A. fumigatus, A. niger, A. sydowii, A. terreus, Emericella nidulans, Fusarium oxysporum and Penicillium chrysogenum were isolated from pesticide-treated wheat straw. The number of A. sydowii colonies was significantly promoted by 1 mmol/L pirimiphos-methyl, pyrazophos, lancer, dimethoate and malathion when used as phosphorus sources and by pirimiphos-methyl and pyrazophos when used as carbon sources. The number of A. flavus colonies increased with 0.5 mmol/L lancer and malathion used as the only carbon sources. A. sydowii, A. niger, A. flavus, E. nidulans and F. oxysporum grew on, and utilized, 5 pesticides as phosphorus source and showed more than 50% mass growth. A. sydowii, A. flavus and F. oxysporum phosphatase hydrolyzed the pesticides suggesting that these species are important pesticide degraders. A. sydowii produced higher amounts of the phosphatase than A. flavus and F. oxysporum. The enzyme was highly active against pyrazophos, lancer and malathion used as the only sources of organic phosphate. A. flavus and A. sydowii phosphatases efficiently hydrolyzed pesticides at 300 ppm in soil, the degradation at 1000 ppm was lower. Mineralization of 1000 ppm pesticides in soil amended with wheat straw was higher than in nonamended soil. All added pesticides except profenfos were degraded within 3 weeks. Lyophilized adapted biomass of A. flavus and A. sydowii could thus be used for field biodegradation of these pesticides.	1	pesticide
10492776	Comparison of bednets impregnated with different pyrethroids for their impact on mosquitoes and on re-infection with malaria after clearance of pre-existing infections with chlorproguanil-dapsone.	Comparisons of bednets treated either with alphacypermethrin or lambdacyhalothrin showed similar effectiveness by various entomological criteria. Lambdacyhalothrin was associated with significantly more reports of nasal irritation than alphacypermethrin. The 2 net treatments were equally effective in reducing incidence of new malaria infections and the treated nets were much more effective than untreated nets. These measurements were made after clearing existing infections with chlorproguanil-dapsone. This drug combination was more than 99% effective in clearing infections 1 week after treatment and a study of children taken to an altitude with no malaria transmission showed that there were very few recrudescences.	1	pesticide
10499841	Controlled release of aldicarb from lignin loaded ionotropic hydrogel microspheres.	Aldicarb loaded microspheres of carboxymethyl cellulose, CMC, of various compositions were prepared with the crosslinking action of Al(III). Into these microspheres, lignin was introduced as a filler to further regulate the rate of release. The encapsulation efficiency was low (4.15-13.00%) due to the high water solubility of aldicarb. Release into aqueous media was quite rapid and almost complete within 24h. Initial stages of the release (60% of AS released) was investigated to determine the release mechanism and it was found that release from the microspheres was governed by Fickian diffusion. Among the various parameters, the ratio of lignin to CMC and aldicarb to CMC were found to be influential on the rate of release from the crosslinked CMC-lignin microspheres. The soil behaviour confirmed the delayed release effect of the controlled release formulation compared to Temik (a commercial preparation of aldicarb), especially when lignin was incorporated.	1	pesticide
10514047	Laboratory testing of a lethal ovitrap for Aedes aegypti.	Laboratory tests were conducted to determine the feasibility of making the mosquito ovitrap lethal to Aedes aegypti (L.) when they attempt to oviposit in the trap. Heavy-weight velour paper strips (2.54 x 11 cm) were used as an alternative to the wooden paddle normally provided as a substrate for mosquito oviposition. The paper strips were pretreated with insecticide solutions and allowed to dry before being used in oviposition cups of 473 ml capacity, filled with water initially to within 2.5 cm of the brim. Insecticides chosen for their quick knock-down efficacy were bendiocarb 76% WP (1.06 mg a.i./strip) and four pyrethroids: permethrin 25% WP (0.16 mg a.i./strip), deltamethin 4.75% SC (0.87 mg a.i./strip), cypermethrin 40% WP (2.81 mg a.i./strip), and cyfluthrin 20% WP (0.57 mg a.i./ strip). For experimental evaluation, two oviposition cups (one with an insecticide-treated strip and one with an untreated strip) were placed in cages (cubic 30 cm) with gravid female Ae. aegypti mosquitoes (aged 6-8 days) from a susceptible laboratory strain. Mortality-rates of female mosquitoes were 45% for bendiocarb, 47% for permethrin, 98% for deltamethrin, 100% for cypermethrin, and 100% for cyfluthrin. Young instar larvae added to the treated cups died within 2h. After water evaporation from the cups for 38 days, fresh mosquito females had access to previously submerged portions of the velour paper paddle, and mortality rates of 59% or more occurred. Cups that had water (360 ml) dripped into them, to simulate rain, produced female mosquito mortality rates of > 50% and all larvae died within 3 h of being added. These tests demonstrate that the ovitrap can be made lethal to both adults and larvae by insecticidal treatment of the ovistrip. Field efficacy trials are underway in Brazil to access the impact of this simple, low-cost, environmentally benign approach on populations of the dengue vector Ae. aegypti.	1	pesticide
10549155	Age dependent alterations in photosystem II acceptor side in Cucumis sativus cotyledonary leaf thylakoids: analysis of binding characteristics of herbicide [14C]-atrazine.	Senescence induced temporal changes in photosystems can be conveniently studied in cotyledonary leaves. We monitored the protein, chlorophyll and electron transport activities in Cucumis sativus cv Poinsette cotyledonary leaves and observed that by 20th day, there was a 50%, 41% and 30-33% decline in the chlorophyll, protein and photosystem II activity respectively when compared to 6th day cotyledonary leaves taken as control. We investigated the changes in photosystem II activity (O2 evolution) as a function of light intensity. The photosystem II functional antenna decreased by 27% and the functional photosystem II units decreased by 30% in 20-day old cotyledonary leaf thylakoids. The herbicide [14C]-atrazine binding assay to monitor specific binding of the herbicide to the acceptor side of photosystem II reaction centre protein, D1, showed an increase in the affinity for atrazine towards D1 protein and decrease in the QB binding sites in 20th day leaf thylakoids when compared to 6th day leaf thylakoids. The western blot analysis also suggested a decrease in steady state levels of D1 protein in 20th day cotyledonary leaf thylakoids as compared to 6th day sample which is in agreement with [14C]-atrazine binding assay and light saturation kinetics.	1	pesticide
10554273	Development of Immunoassays for Type II Synthetic Pyrethroids. 1. Hapten Design and Application to Heterologous and Homologous Assays.	Immunoassays differing in selectivities for pyrethroid insecticides have been developed for the detection of type II pyrethroids, including deltamethrin, cypermethrin, and lambda-cyhalothrin. Two approaches were employed in hapten synthesis to raise antibodies with different cross-reactions: (1) use of three spacer attachment points to offset different parts of molecules from the points of attachment and (2) use of linkers with and without bulky groups in the enzyme conjugate to reduce antibody affinities for the spacer arm in the immunoassay. The first approach resulted in the preparation of three series of haptens with a spacer attached (1) at the aromatic moiety of pyrethroid, (2) through the middle of the molecule, and (3) at the cyclopropane moiety. Haptens based on the derivatives of the pyrethroid metabolites were also prepared. The second approach involved the use of a linker with a bulky (cyclohexane ring) functionality for preparation of an enzyme conjugate. While most combinations of antibody and conjugate could be used in immunoassays for detection of deltamethrin in the 10-100 µg/L range, in most cases the limits of detection of the assays (for total isomers of a particular target pyrethroid) were lowered 10-50 fold by treatment of the pyrethroid standards with dilute alkali to produce a different isomer mix. Fifteen antisera prepared using 8 haptens were each screened with 14 peroxidase conjugates, and 26 antibody/conjugate combinations were selected for further study on the basis of the assay sensitivity, dynamic behavior, and specificity for deltamethrin, cypermethrin, and cyhalothrin. These immunoassays provided 50% inhibition of antibody binding (IC(50)) values between 1.5 and 4.2 µg/L of isomerized total deltamethrin and limits of detection of 0.2-0.7 µg/L. The most sensitive immunoassay for total deltamethrin was obtained using cypermethric acid-KLH as the immunogen and a conjugate based on a derivative of cypermethrin coupled through the middle of the molecule to peroxidase. These provided an IC(50) of 2 µg/L and a limit of detection of 0.2 µg/L of isomerized total deltamethrin. However, no particular hapten design produced antisera of clearly superior sensitivity or specificity for deltamethrin. Differing cross-reactions with the closely related pyrethroids, deltamethrin, cypermethrin, and cyhalothrin, were obtained, and for several antibodies the cross-reaction as well as the limits of detection could be altered by varying the conjugate combinations. Each of the 12 antibody/enzyme conjugate combinations that sensitively detected deltamethrin were very stereospecific, detecting the alphaS, 1R cis, (DM1), and alphaR, 1R cis (DM2) isomers only; the assay sensitivity was greater for the latter isomer.	1	pesticide
10597907	Captan impairs CYP-catalyzed drug metabolism in the mouse.	To investigate whether the fungicide captan impairs CYP-catalyzed drug metabolism in murine liver, kidney and lung, the modulation of the regio- and stereo-selective hydroxylation of testosterone, including 6beta-(CYP3A), 6alpha-(CYP2A1 and CYP2B1) and 16alpha-(CYP2B9) oxidations was studied. Specific substrates as probes for different CYP isoforms such as p-nitrophenol (CYP2E1), pentoxyresorufin (CYP2B1), ethoxyresorufin (CYP1A1), aminopyrine (CYP3A), phenacetin and methoxyresorufin (CYP1A2), and ethoxycoumarin (mixed) were also considered. Daily doses of captan (7.5 or 15 mg/kg b.w., i.p.) were administered to different groups of Swiss Albino CD1 mice of both sexes for 1 or 3 consecutive days. While a single dose of this fungicide did not affect CYP-machinery, repeated treatment significantly impaired the microsomal metabolism; in the liver, for example, a general inactivating effect was observed, with the sole exception of testosterone 2alpha-hydroxylase activity which was induced up to 8.6-fold in males. In vitro studies showed that the mechanism-based inhibition was related to captan metabolites rather than the parental compound. In the kidney, both CYP3A- and CYP1A2-linked monooxygenases were significantly induced (2-fold) by this pesticide. Accelerated phenacetin and methoxyresorufin metabolism (CYP1A2) was also observed in the lung. Data on CYP3A (kidney) and CYP1A2 (kidney and lung) induction were corroborated by Western immunoblotting using rabbit polyclonal anti-CYP3A1/2 and CYP1A1/2 antibodies. By means of electron spin resonance (EPR) spectrometry coupled to a spin-trapping technique, it was found that the recorded induction generates a large amounts of the anion radical superoxide (O*2-) either in kidney or lung microsomes. These findings suggest that alterations in CYP-associated activities by captan exposure may result in impaired (endogenous) metabolism as well as of coadministered drugs with significant implications for their disposition. The adverse outcomes associated to CYP changes (e.g. cotoxicity, comutagenicity and promotion) may also have harmful consequences.	1	pesticide
10630274	Vaginally applied diquat intoxication.	CASE REPORT: We report the case of a woman who introduced 20 mL of diquat concentrate intravaginally. Abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhea, burning chest pains, and somnolence appeared within the first 24 hours. The vulva and vagina were corrosively inflamed. Acute renal failure appeared on the third day and was treated by 6 hemodialyses over 6 days. The patient was dysarthric with spastic tetraparesis for 3 months. The electroencephalogram, diffusely slow on day 3, was normal on day 28. The electromyoneurogram was normal at all times. Biopsy of a peripheral nerve performed on day 57 following intoxication showed no myelin or axonal alterations.	1	pesticide
10700556	Developmental neurotoxicity of chlorpyrifos in vivo and in vitro: effects on nuclear transcription factors involved in cell replication and differentiation.	Chlorpyrifos is a widely used organophosphate insecticide that is a suspected developmental neurotoxin. Although chlorpyrifos exerts some effects through cholinesterase inhibition, recent studies suggest additional, direct actions on developing cells. We assessed the effects of chlorpyrifos on nuclear transcription factors involved in cell replication and differentiation using in vitro and in vivo models. HeLa nuclear protein extracts were incubated with the labeled consensus oligonucleotides for AP-1 and Sp1 transcription factors in the presence and absence of chlorpyrifos. In concentrations previously shown to affect cell development, chlorpyrifos reduced AP-1, but not Sp1 DNA-binding activity. Next, chlorpyrifos was incubated with PC12 cells either during cell replication or after initiation of differentiation with NGF. Chlorpyrifos evoked stage-specific interference with the expression of the transcription factors: Sp1 was reduced in replicating and differentiating cells, whereas AP-1 was affected only during differentiation. Finally, neonatal rats were given apparently subtoxic doses of chlorpyrifos either on postnatal days 1-4 or 11-14 and the effects were evaluated in the forebrain (an early-developing, cholinergic target region) and cerebellum (late-developing region, poor in cholinergic innervation). Again, chlorpyrifos evoked stage-specific changes in transcription factor expression and binding activity, with greater effects on Sp1 during active neurogenesis, and effects on AP-1 during differentiation. The changes were present in both forebrain and cerebellum and were gender-specific. These results indicate that chlorpyrifos interferes with brain development, in part by multiple alterations in the activity of transcription factors involved in the basic machinery of cell replication and differentiation. Noncholinergic actions of chlorpyrifos that are unique to brain development reinforce the need to examine endpoints other than cholinesterase inhibition.	1	pesticide
10714472	Susceptibility to two pyrethroids in Boophilus microplus (Acari: Ixodidae) populations of northwest Argentina. Preliminary results.	Cattle are treated 6-12 times yearly to control Boophilus microplus ticks in the east zone of the Argentinean infested region, while 1-4 treatments are applied for tick control in the west zone. In the 1970s resistance to organo-phosphate acaricides was found in the east zone, but not in the west zone. However, a shift to synthetic pyrethroids (SP) was made through all infested regions. Currently, indications of resistance to SP in the east zone, but not in the west zone, are provoking to a switch to formamidine acaricides. During 1998 a total of 147 B. microplus engorged females were collected from 20 beef cattle ranches from the west zone of the Argentinean infested region. Individual progenies of these ticks were tested ('larval packet test') with cypermethrin and deltamethrin, and their LC 50 and LC 90 were compared to those estimated for the Milagro susceptible strain. No evidence of resistance to these SP was found. Due to sampling restraints the results are presented as preliminary. Nevertheless, a shift away from use of SP for control of B. microplus in the west zone appears to be unjustified and should be independent of the resistance circumstances observed in the east zone of the Argentinean tick infested region.	1	pesticide
10759312	Insecticide resistance in Brazilian Triatoma infestans and Venezuelan Rhodnius prolixus.	Resistance levels to insecticides used in control of Chagas Disease vectors were assessed in two species of bugs (Hemiptera: Reduviidae): Triatoma infestans (Klug) from Brazil and Rhodnius prolixus Stål from Venezuela. The resistance ratios, compared to susceptible laboratory strains, were determined by topical application bioassays. The T. infestans PA strain exhibited resistance ratios of 7x to deltamethrin, 3.6x to beta-cyfluthrin and 3.3x to cypermethrin, but was susceptible to beta-cypermethrin and lambda-cyhalothrin. Rhodnius prolixus CA strain showed resistance to all the pyrethroids evaluated, the resistance ratios ranging between 4.5x to lambda-cyhalothrin and 12.4x to cypermethrin. Deltamethrin resistance in both strains was decreased by piperonyl butoxide, suggesting oxidative metabolism as cause of resistance.	1	pesticide
10771034	Mechanism of histamine release induced by levofloxacin, a fluoroquinolone antibacterial agent.	The present study was designed to clarify the mechanism of histamine release caused by levofloxacin, a fluoroquinolone antibacterial agent, using rat peritoneal mast cells. Levofloxacin induced a concentration-dependent histamine secretion from 300 microg/ml without lactate dehydrogenase leakage, and the release was rapidly completed within 30 s. This action was dependent on temperature, energy, pH and intracellular Ca(2+), similarly to the effect of compound 48/80, a basic compound. Unlike that with the calcium ionophore A23187, histamine secretion due to levofloxacin or compound 48/80 was prevented by pretreatment with either pertussis toxin or benzalkonium chloride, a selective inhibitor of G proteins of G(i) subtypes. Moreover, the histamine release elicited by levofloxacin or compound 48/80 was suppressed by hydrolysis of sialic acid residues on the cell surface brought about by neuraminidase. These results demonstrate that the mechanism by which levofloxacin exerts histamine release may be closely linked to activation of pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins.	1	pesticide
10775335	Pesticide residues in grapes, wine, and their processing products.	In this review the results obtained in the 1990s from research on the behavior of pesticide residues on grapes, from treatment to harvest, and their fate in drying, wine-making, and alcoholic beverage processing are reported. The fungicide residues on grapes (cyproconazole, hexaconazole, kresoxim-methyl, myclobutanil, penconazole, tetraconazole, and triadimenol), the application rates of which were of a few tens of grams per hectare, were very low after treatment and were not detectable at harvest. Pyrimethanil residues were constant up to harvest, whereas fluazinam, cyprodinil, mepanipyrim, azoxystrobin, and fludioxonil showed different disappearance rates (t(1/2) = 4.3, 12, 12.8, 15.2, and 24 days, respectively). The decay rate of the organophosphorus insecticides was very fast with t(1/2) ranging between 0.97 and 3.84 days. The drying process determined a fruit concentration of 4 times. Despite this, the residue levels of benalaxyl, phosalone, metalaxyl, and procymidone on sun-dried grapes equalled those on the fresh grape, whereas they were higher for iprodione (1.6 times) and lower for vinclozolin and dimethoate (one-third and one-fifth, respectively). In the oven-drying process, benalaxyl, metalaxyl, and vinclozolin showed the same residue value in the fresh and dried fruit, whereas iprodione and procymidone resides were lower in raisins than in the fresh fruit. The wine-making process begins with the pressing of grapes. From this moment onward, because the pesticide on the grape surface comes into contact with the must, it is in a biphasic system, made up of a liquid phase (the must) and a solid phase (cake and lees), and will be apportioned between the two phases. The new fungicides have shown no effect on alcoholic or malolactic fermentation. In some cases the presence of pesticides has also stimulated the yeasts, especially Kloeckera apiculata, to produce more alcohol. After fermentation, pesticide residues in wine were always smaller than those on the grapes and in the must, except for those pesticides that did not have a preferential partition between liquid and solid phase (azoxystrobin, dimethoate, and pyrimethanil) and were present in wine at the same concentration as on the grapes. In some cases (mepanipyrim, fluazinam, and chlorpyrifos) no detectable residues were found in the wines at the end of fermentation. From a comparison of residues in wine obtained by vinification with and without skins, it can be seen that their values were generally not different. Among the clarifying substances commonly used in wine (bentonite, charcoal, gelatin, polyvinylpolypyrrolidone, potassium caseinate, and colloidal silicon dioxide), charcoal allowed the complete elimination of most pesticides, especially at low levels, whereas the other clarifying substances were ineffective. Wine and its byproducts (cake and lees) are used in the industry to produce alcohol and alcoholic beverages. Fenthion, quinalphos, and vinclozolin pass into the distillate from the lees only if present at very high concentrations, but with a very low transfer percantage (2, 1, and 0.1%, respectively). No residue passed from the cake into the distillate, whereas fenthion and vinclozolin pass from the wine, but only at low transfer percentages (13 and 5%, respectively).	1	pesticide
10790507	Long-term effects of pesticide exposure at various life stages of the southern leopard frog (Rana sphenocephala).	Amphibian larvae are commonly exposed to low levels of pesticides during their development. Chronic studies generally examine the effects of long-term exposure, but they often disregard the importance of the individual life stage at which tadpoles are exposed. I determined the point during development at which carbaryl effects are manifested by exposing southern leopard frog tadpoles (Rana sphenocephala) to the pesticide carbaryl at five different times during development. Metamorphs exposed throughout the tadpole stage and throughout development (egg, embryo, tadpole) experienced significant mortality at all chemical levels. Although the length of the larval period was the same for all experimental groups, metamorphs exposed during the egg stage were smaller than their corresponding controls, independent of whether they were exposed at any other stage. Nearly 18% of individuals exposed to carbaryl during development exhibited some type of developmental deformity (including both visceral and limb malformities), compared to a single deformed (< 1%) control tadpole, demonstrating that a chemical hypothesis for amphibian deformities remains viable. Because exposure to nonpersistent chemicals may last for only a short period of time, it is important to examine the long-term effects that short-term exposure has on larval amphibians and the existence of any sensitive life stage. Any delay in metamorphosis or decrease in size at metamorphosis can impact demographic processes of the population, potentially leading to declines or local extinction.	1	pesticide
10794385	A consideration of age-dependent differences in susceptibility to organophosphorus and pyrethroid insecticides.	Evidence that neonates are more sensitive than adults to organophosphorus (OP) and pyrethroid insecticides is largely based on studies that compare toxicity at acute lethal doses. Under such circumstances, the greater susceptibility of the neonate appears to be due to limited metabolic capacity rather than an inherent difference in the sensitivity of target sites. For purposes of risk assessment with food-use pesticides, the more relevant issue is whether the neonate is more sensitive than the adult to lower levels of exposure, approximating levels used to establish acceptable residue limits (tolerances) on various food products. If infants and children are not more sensitive to environmentally-relevant levels of exposure, then the existing tolerances for dietary exposure will provide adequate protection. If, on the other hand, they may be more sensitive, then additional studies with young animals or an additional uncertainty factor may be needed for added protection. This paper examines two sets of studies that address this issue. The first involves multi-generation reproduction studies with rats that were treated with OP insecticides (coumaphos, fenamiphos, tribufos, trichlorfon, or oxydemeton-methyl) through the diet and examined for effects, including cholinesterase (ChE) inhibition. The second involves rats that were treated by gavage with an acute dose of a pyrethroid (cismethrin, permethrin, deltamethrin or cypermethrin) to establish relative sensitivity to either a lethal dose or to a low, behaviorally-active dose. The results with the OP insecticides support ChE inhibition as the most sensitive measure of exposure and the critical effect (i.e., the lowest NOEL) for each study was based on ChE inhibition in the adult. The magnitude of ChE inhibition in pups (measured on postnatal day (PND) 4 and 21) was consistently less than for adults at a given dietary level. For the representative Type I pyrethroids, there was no evidence that pups are more sensitive than adults at any dose level. For both Type II pyrethroids, young rats were considerably more sensitive than adults to a lethal dose but not to lower doses. Levels of deltamethrin in whole-brain tissue support kinetics as the basis for the greater sensitivity of young rats to a lethal dose, with the immature systems involved with detoxification being overwhelmed at such high dose levels. These findings indicate that young animals are not more sensitive than adults to lower doses of OP or pyrethroid insecticides. This outcome supports the conclusion that infants and children are protected by existing tolerances, without the need for an additional uncertainty factor.	1	pesticide
10805231	Occurrence and load of selected herbicides and metabolites in the lower Mississippi River.	Analyses of water samples collected from the Mississippi River at Baton Rouge, Louisiana, during 1991-1997 indicate that hundreds of metric tons of herbicides and herbicide metabolites are being discharged annually to the Gulf of Mexico. Atrazine, metolachlor, and the ethane-sulfonic acid metabolite of alachlor (alachlor ESA) were the most frequently detected herbicides and, in general, were present in the largest concentrations. Almost 80% of the annual herbicide load to the Gulf of Mexico occurred during the growing season from May to August. The concentrations and loads of alachlor in the Mississippi River decreased dramatically after 1993 in response to decreased use in the basin. In contrast, the concentrations and loads of acetochlor increased after 1994, reflecting its role as a replacement for alachlor. The peak annual herbicide load occurred in 1993, when approximately 640 metric tons (t) of atrazine, 320 t of cyanazine, 215 t of metolachlor, 53 t of simazine, and 50 t of alachlor were discharged to the Gulf of Mexico. The annual loads of atrazine and cyanazine were generally 1-2% of the amount annually applied in the Mississippi River drainage basin; the annual loads of acetochlor, alachlor, and metolachlor were generally less than 1%. Despite a reduction in atrazine use, historical data do not indicate a long-term downward trend in the atrazine load to the Gulf of Mexico. Although a relation (r2 = 0.62) exists between the atrazine load and stream discharge during May to August, variations in herbicide use and rainfall patterns within subbasins can have a large effect on herbicide loads in the Mississippi River Basin and probably explain a large part of the annual variation in atrazine load to the Gulf of Mexico.	1	pesticide
10805237	Detection of persistent organic pollutants in the Mississippi Delta using semipermeable membrane devices.	From semipermeable membrane devices (SPMDs) placed in five Mississippi Delta streams in 1996 and 1997, the persistent organic pollutants (POPs) aldrin, chlordane, DCPA, DDT, dieldrin, endrin, heptachlor, mirex, nonachlor, and toxaphene were detected. In addition, the insecticides chlorpyriphos, endosulfan, and hexachlorocyclohexanes were detected. Two low-solubility herbicides not detected commonly in surface water, pendimethalin and trifluralin, were also detected.	1	pesticide
10813365	Glutathione-dependent cytotoxicity of the chloroacetanilide herbicides alachlor, metolachlor, and propachlor in rat and human hepatoma-derived cultured cells.	Alachlor, metolachlor, and propachlor are widely used chloroacetanilide herbicides. Their cytotoxicity in rat (Fa32) and human (Hep G2) hepatoma-derived cells was investigated, in connection with their influence on the endogenous glutathione (GSH) content, on the xenobiotic-metabolizing phase I enzymes 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) and 7-pentoxyresorufin O-depentylase (PROD), and phase II glutathione transferase (GST). The cytotoxicity was measured by the neutral red uptake inhibition assay. The following toxicity range was observed in both cell lines: propachlor > alachlor > metolachlor. When the endogenous GSH content was reduced by pretreatment of the cells with L-buthionine (S,R)-sulfoximine, the cytotoxicity of the herbicides increased strongly in both cell lines. EROD and PROD activities were dose-dependently increased to different degrees in Fa32, as was EROD in Hep G2, but no PROD activity was observed in these cells. The GSH content was not altered after 1 h treatment, and was approximately doubled after 24 h. GST activity was increased in Fa32 cells but not in Hep G2. A comparable cytotoxicity was observed for the investigated chloroacetanilides in both the rat and the human cell lines. Different interactions with xenobiotic-metabolizing phase I and II enzymes were observed, and GSH showed a protective effect against the acetanilides in both cell lines.	1	pesticide
10816747	[Efficacy of permethrin-impregnated Olyset Net mosquito nets in a zone with pyrethroid resistance vectors. II. Parasitic and clinical evaluation].	The efficacy of permethrin-treated Olyset Net mosquito nets in preventing transmission and morbidity of malaria was studied in Kafine, a village in the rice-growing region of the Cote d'Ivoire. Entomological data demonstrated that permethrin-treated mosquito nets failed to reduce transmission of malaria. Laboratory tests showed that Anopheles gambiae s.s. in Kafine were resistant to permethrin and other pyrethroids. Study included a cohort of 163 children under five years of age who did or did not use mosquito nets. The number of patients seeking treatment for malaria attacks with fever was recorded weekly. No difference was found between the user and non-user groups with regard to the percentage of children exhibiting Plasmodium flaciparum trophozoites or gametocytes or to the mean parasite load. However the rate of high density parasitemia and malaria attacks was twice as high in the non-user group. This difference between users and non-users of mosquito nets cannot be explained only as the result of a physical barrier against bites. In areas where mosquitoes are resistant to pyrethroids, tests conducted in experimental huts have shown that impregnated mosquito nets reduce host/vector contact. However further study will be need to evaluate the overall impact of impregnated nets on malaria in the areas where mosquitoes are resistant to insecticides.	1	pesticide
10825672	Six high-priority organochlorine pesticides, either singly or in combination, are nonestrogenic in transfected HeLa cells.	There have been increasing concerns that environmental chemicals may adversely affect the health of humans and wildlife by acting as endocrine modulators. These concerns have been augmented by the realization that human exposure occurs not just to single chemical agents, but typically to mixtures of chemicals that could exhibit estrogenic activity qualitatively and/or quantitatively different from that of individual components. To address these concerns, we have evaluated the ability of six organochlorine pesticides (4, 4'-DDT, 4,4'-DDD, 4,4'-DDE, aldrin, dieldrin, or endrin, all classified high priority by ATSDR) to modulate transcriptional activation of an estrogen-responsive reporter gene in transfected HeLa cells. In these assays, HeLa cells cotransfected with an expression vector encoding estrogen receptor and an estrogen-responsive chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) reporter plasmid were exposed to these pesticides individually and in defined combinations. While estradiol consistently elicited 10- to 23-fold dose-dependent inductions in these assays, the six organochlorine pesticides showed no detectable dose-related response when tested individually. When tested in binary combinations, the pesticide mixtures showed no additional estrogenicity. Thus, the pesticides tested, singly or as mixtures, showed virtually no evidence of estrogenicity.	1	pesticide
10860693	Outbreak of scabies in Norwegian nursing homes and home care patients: control and prevention.	Over a period of five months (October 1998-February 1999), an outbreak of scabies affected 19 persons associated with a nursing home in Oslo, Norway. Scabies was diagnosed in 13 patients; six long-term patients, five short-term patients also cared for at home, and two home care patients associated with the same institution. Six healthcare workers who had assisted with infected patients in their own homes were also diagnosed with scabies. Two separate index cases were found. Both had had pruritus for several months, diagnosed as eczema, and were repeatedly treated at dermatology outpatient clinics before the diagnosis was made. Both index cases were cared for at home and in the nursing home (short-term). Repeated treatments with permethrin were tried before effective treatment with benzyl benzoate. Altogether 370 persons (patients, staff, relatives) were treated. In June-July 1999, scabies was diagnosed in two other nursing homes; six patients or staff, and 156 persons were treated. Patients with scabies were contact isolated and disinfection and cleaning was performed. Simultaneous treatment and washing or disinfection of clothing, bedding and environment of all potentially affected individuals is imperative to control an outbreak of scabies.	1	pesticide
10868593	Analysis of pesticide residues in mixed fruit and vegetable extracts by direct sample introduction/gas chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry.	"Direct sample introduction (DSI), or ""dirty sample injection,"" was investigated in the determination of 22 diverse pesticide residues in mixed apple, green bean, and carrot extracts by benchtop gas chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (DSI/GC/MS-MS). The targeted pesticides, some of which were incurred in the samples, included chlorpyrifos, azinphos-methyl, parathion-methyl, diazinon, terbufos, p,p'-DDE, endosulfan sulfate, carbofuran, carbaryl, propargite, bifenthrin, dacthal, trifluralin, metalaxyl, pendimethalin, atrazine, piperonyl butoxide, diphenylamine, vinclozolin, chlorothalonil, quintozene, and tetrahydrophthalimide (the breakdown product of captan). The analytical DSI method entailed the following steps: (1) blend 30 g sample with 60 mL acetonitrile for 1 min in a centrifuge bottle; (2) add 6 g NaCl and blend 30 s; (3) centrifuge for 1-2 min; (4) add 5 mL upper layer to 1 g anhydrous MgSO4 in a vial; and (5) analyze 11 microL extract, using DSI/GC/MS-MS. Sample cleanup is not needed because GCIMS-MS is exceptionally selective for the targeted analytes, and nonvolatile coextracted matrix components do not contaminate the injector or the GC/MS-MS system. Average recoveries of the pesticides were 103 +/- 7% with relative standard deviations of 14 +/- 5% on average, and limits of detection were <2 ng/g for nearly all pesticides studied. The DSI/GC/ MS-MS approach for targeted pesticides is quantitative, confirmatory, sensitive, selective, rugged, rapid, simple, and inexpensive."	1	pesticide
10874620	Degradation of atrazine, metolachlor, and pendimethalin in pesticide-contaminated soils: effects of aged residues on soil respiration and plant survival.	This study was conducted to determine the effects of pesticide mixtures on degradation patterns of parent compounds as well as effects on soil microbial respiration. Bioavailability of residues to sensitive plant species was also determined. Soil for this study was obtained from a pesticide-contaminated area within an agrochemical dealer site. Degradation patterns were not affected by the presence or absence of other herbicides in this study. Atrazine concentrations were significantly lower at 21 through 160 days aging time compared to day 0 concentrations. Metolachlor and pendimethalin concentrations were not significantly different over time and remained high throughout the study. Microbial respiration was suppressed in treated soils from day 21 to day 160. Soybean and canola were the most successful plant species in the germination and survival tests. Generally, with increased aging of pesticides in soil, germination time decreased. Survival time of plants increased over time for some treatments indicating possible decreased bioavailability of pesticide residues. In some cases, survival time decreased at the longer 160-day aging period, possibly indicating a change in bioavailability, perhaps as the result of formation of more bioavailable and phytotoxic metabolites. No interactive effects were noted for mixtures of pesticides compared to individually applied pesticides in terms of degradation of the parent compound or on seed germination, plant survival, or microbial respiration.	1	pesticide
10902355	Correlated insecticide cross-resistance in azinphosmethyl resistant codling moth (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae).	Resistance to several classes of insecticides was correlated with azinphosmethyl resistance in codling moth, Cydia pomonella (L.), in California. In tests of laboratory and field populations, cross-resistance was positively correlated with azinphosmethyl and two organophosphates (diazinon, phosmet), a carbamate (carbaryl), a chlorinated hydrocarbon (DDT), and two pyrethroids (esfenvalerate and fenpropathrin). Additionally, negatively correlated cross-resistance was identified between azinphosmethyl and two other organophosphates, chlorpyrifos and methyl parathion. Patterns of resistance observed in laboratory colonies were confirmed with field bioassays. In bioassays of field populations, azinphosmethyl resistance was observed to increase from 1991 to 1993, although levels of resistance remained < 13-fold. Because orchards with azinphosmethyl resistance have had difficulties with suppression of codling moth, and cross-resistance was found for all tested classes of insecticides, strategies for managing resistance will need to be developed so as to protect current and future control tactics. The two insecticides with negatively correlated cross-resistance are discussed as potential tools for resistance management.	1	pesticide
10903118	A field study to compare performance of stainless steel research monitoring wells with existing on-farm drinking water wells in measuring pesticide and nitrate concentrations.	Existing drinking water wells are widely used for the collection of ground water samples to evaluate chemical contamination. A well comparison study was conducted to compare pesticide and nitrate-N data from specially designed stainless steel research monitoring wells with data from nearby existing on-farm drinking water wells. Results could help to determine whether adequate information concerning ground water contamination can be obtained from existing drinking water wells for use in making pollutant control decisions. The study was conducted during 1993-1994 in the Little Coharie Watershed, a 158 square mile area located in the coastal plain of eastern North Carolina. Statistical analysis indicated that research monitoring wells provided a greater probability of detecting pesticides in ground water than existing on-farm wells. Atrazine was the most frequently detected pesticide found in all wells, followed in order by fluometuron, carbofuran, metolachlor, alachlor, carbaryl, butylate, chlorothalonil, linuron and simazine. Ninety-seven percent of all wells had observed concentrations of nitrate-N, ranging from 0.1 to 30.1 mg/L. There was not a significant difference between research wells and existing wells for monitoring nitrate-N. Based on results of this study, existing drinking water wells can be used for monitoring nitrate; however, specialized stainless steel monitoring wells should be used for monitoring pesticides in ground water.	1	pesticide
10959192	[Organochlorine pesticide residues in tea].	Organochlorine pesticides still exist as environmental pollutants in many countries. In this paper, the results of monitoring of organochlorine pesticides in teas taken from the Polish market in 1998 year are presented. The monitoring included analysis of organochlorine insecticides and their metabolites (sigma DDT, sigma HCH, HCB, Heptachlor, Epoxide heptachlor, and Aldrin) in samples of black and green tea, and fruit tea. The mean concentration of the organochlorine compounds in the black tea ranged from 0.0002 to 0.003 mg/kg of product, and in the green and fruit teas from 0.0001 to 0.003 mg/kg of product depending on the pesticide. In no case the violation of the Maximum Residues Limits was observed. The results obtained in this monitoring did not differ from the results reported by the other authors.	1	pesticide
10963963	Automated In Vitro Dermal Absorption (AIVDA): predicting skin permeation of atrazine with finite and infinite (swimming/bathing) exposure models.	The Automated In Vitro Dermal Absorption (AIVDA) HPLC method developed in our laboratory for finite dose tests was developed further for infinite dose swimming/bathing exposure tests and for monitoring skin viability during the permeation assay. Skin absorption of the herbicide atrazine was tested under both finite and infinite dose conditions and the data compared to that obtained using the Bronaugh flow-through cell. Confirmation that skin viability was maintained throughout the AIVDA 24-hr infinite dose tests without phenol was obtained using a novel Radio-HPLC method that was developed to monitor glycolytic 14C-lactic acid formation in 14C-glucose spiked receiver solution. Advantages of the AIVDA method (e.g. rapid, sensitive, versatile, cost-effective analysis) together with its disadvantages (e.g. need for manual dexterity, lack of receiver albumin, compound retention time, limit of sampling interval) are discussed.	1	pesticide
11052716	Reduction of pesticide residues on produce by rinsing.	"In 1997 this laboratory initiated a research program with the objective of examining the effect that rinsing of produce with tap water would have on pesticide residues. Samples were obtained from local markets and/or grown at our experimental farm. Because approximately 35% of produce from retail sources contains pesticide residues, growing and treating produce at an experimental farm had the advantage that all such samples contain pesticide residues. Pesticides were applied under normal field conditions to a variety of food crops and the vegetation was allowed to undergo natural weathering prior to harvest. The resulting samples contained field-incurred or ""field-fortified"" residues. This experimental design was employed to mimic as closely as possible real world samples. Crops were treated, harvested, and divided into equal subsamples. One subsample was processed unwashed, whereas the other was rinsed under tap water. The extraction and analysis method used was a multi-residue method developed in our laboratory. Twelve pesticides were included in this study: the fungicides captan, chlorothalonil, iprodione, and vinclozolin; and the insecticides endosulfan, permethrin, methoxychlor, malathion, diazinon, chlorpyrifos, bifenthrin, and DDE (a soil metabolite of DDT). Statistical analysis of the data using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test showed that rinsing removed residues for nine of the twelve pesticides studied. Residues of vinclozolin, bifenthrin, and chlorpyrifos were not reduced. The rinsability of a pesticide is not correlated with its water solubility."	1	pesticide
11053550	Effect of atrazine on implantation and early pregnancy in 4 strains of rats.	Atrazine (ATR) is an herbicide that has been shown to have adverse reproductive effects including alterations in levels of pituitary hormones such as prolactin (prl) and luteinizing hormone (LH) in female LE rats when administered at doses of 200 mg/kg/day for 1 and 3 days. Because the action of prl in promotion of progesterone secretion is essential for the initiation of pregnancy in rats, this study was designed to examine the effect of exposure to ATR during early pregnancy on implantation and short-term pregnancy maintenance. Rats were divided into two groups representing periods of dosing with ATR prior to the diurnal or nocturnal surges of prl. Within each group, four groups consisting of four strains of rats [Holtzman (HLZ); Sprague Dawley (SD); Long Evans (LE); Fischer 344 (F344)] were each further subdivided into four ATR dosages. Rats were dosed by gavage with 0, 50, 100, or 200 mg/kg/day ATR on days 1-8 of pregnancy (day 0 = sperm +). All animals were necropsied on day 8 or 9 of pregnancy. The 200 mg/kg dose of ATR reduced body weight gain in all but one group. Two groups of animals dosed at 100 and 200 mg/kg/day in the nocturnal dosing period showed an increase in percent preimplantation loss, and both of these were F344 rats. HLZ rats were the only strain to show a significant level of postimplantation loss and a decrease in serum progesterone at 200 mg/kg/day both following diurnal and nocturnal dosing. Doses of 100 mg/kg/day also produced postimplantation loss following diurnal and nocturnal dosing, but progesterone levels were decreased only after nocturnal dosing. Alterations in serum LH were seen in several groups. Serum estradiol was significantly increased only in SD rats dosed at the diurnal interval with 200 mg/kg ATR. We conclude that F344 rats are most susceptible to preimplantation effects of ATR and that HLZ rats appear most sensitive to the postimplantation effects of the chemical. LE and SD rats were least sensitive to effects of ATR during very early pregnancy.	1	pesticide
11057589	Leaching properties of some degradation products of alachlor and metolachlor.	Once in soil, pesticides undergo degradation processes that give rise to a complex pattern of metabolites. Those presenting a significant percentage of formation, genotoxic and leaching properties may pose a threat to human health associated with the consumption of drinking water. The aim of this study is to assess the hazard potential of some metabolites that may occur in ground water. 2,6-diethylaniline, 2-chloro-2',6'-diethylacetanilide, 2-hydroxy-2',6'-diethylacetanilide, metabolites of alachlor and 2-ethyl-6-methylaniline, metabolite of metolachlor, were chosen for their genotoxic properties. Under laboratory conditions, these metabolites showed DT50 = 1-5 days and Koc = 45-357. Their leaching potential, calculated according to Gustafson, is very low and, therefore, they should not be regarded as contaminants of ground waters. Aged residue leaching studies as well as preliminary studies on well waters seem to confirm these findings.	1	pesticide
11102695	Genetic diversity of carbofuran-degrading soil bacteria.	The genetic diversity of 128 carbofuran-degrading bacteria was determined by ARDRA (amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis) of 16S rDNA and restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of the 16S-23S rDNA spacer region (IGS) using five endonucleases. The isolates were distributed in 26 distinct ARDRA groups and 45 IGS types revealing a high level of microbial diversity confirmed by ARDRA clustering and sequencing of 16S rDNA. The occurrence of a methylcarbamate-degrading gene (mcd) was monitored by polymerase chain reaction amplification using specific primers. The mcd gene was detected only in 58 bacteria and there was no clear relationship between the presence of this gene and the phylogenetic position of the strain.	1	pesticide
11110457	Evaluation of efficacy of selamectin, fipronil, and imidacloprid against Ctenocephalides felis in dogs.	OBJECTIVE: To evaluate efficacy of monthly administration of selamectin, fipronil, and imidacloprid against Ctenocephalides felis in dogs. DESIGN: Randomized controlled trial. ANIMALS: 44 healthy dogs. PROCEDURE: Dogs known to be free of fleas were infested with 100 unfed adult fleas on days -28 and -21. On days 0, 30, 60, 90, and 120, dogs (12/group) were treated by topical administration of selamectin (6 mg/kg [2.7 mg/lb] of body weight), fipronil (7.5 mg/kg [3.4 mg/lb]), or imidacloprid (10 mg/kg [4.5 mg/lb]); 8 untreated dogs were used as controls. On day -6 and every 2 weeks after initial treatment, comb counts of viable adult fleas were made, and fleas (< or =50/dog) were replaced onto the dog from which they were removed. On day 89, fleas were not replaced. On day 91 and every 7 days until the end of the study, dogs were challenged with 20 adult fleas. RESULTS: 14 days after initial treatment, geometric mean flea counts were reduced by 97.5 to 99.1 % for all treatments, compared with pretreatment counts on day -6. Selamectin, fipronil, and imidacloprid reduced geometric mean flea counts by 99.7 to 100% from day 29 to the end of the study. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Selamectin is as effective as fipronil and imidacloprid in reducing C felis infestation in dogs housed for 3 months in a flea-infested environment under conditions known to support the flea life cycle, and in protecting against subsequent weekly challenges with C felis for an additional 2 months.	1	pesticide
11139167	Development of California Public Health Goals (PHGs) for chemicals in drinking water.	As part of a program for evaluation of environmental contaminants in drinking water, risk assessments are being conducted to develop Public Health Goals (PHGs) for chemicals in drinking water, based solely on public health considerations. California's Safe Drinking Water Act of 1996 mandated the development of PHGs for over 80 chemicals by 31 December 1999. The law allowed these levels to be set higher or lower than federal maximum contaminant levels (MCLs), including a level of zero if data are insufficient to determine a specific level. The estimated safe levels and toxicological rationale for the first 26 of these chemicals are described here. The chemicals include alachlor, antimony, benzo[a]pyrene, chlordane, copper, cyanide, dalapon, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 2,4-D, diethylhexylphthalate, dinoseb, endothall, ethylbenzene, fluoride, glyphosate, lead, nitrate, nitrite, oxamyl, pentachlorophenol, picloram, trichlorofluoromethane, trichlorotrifluoroethane, uranium and xylene(s). These risk assessments are to be considered by the State of California in revising and developing state MCLs for chemicals in drinking water (which must not exceed federal MCLs). The estimates are also notable for incorporation or consideration of newer guidelines and principles for risk assessment extrapolations.	1	pesticide
11142313	Assessment of insecticide resistance in five insect pests attacking field and vegetable crops in Nicaragua.	Field populations of Hypothenemus hampei (Ferrari), Plutella xylostella (L.), Spodoptera exigua (Hübner), Helicoverpa zea (Boddie) and Bemisia tabaci (Gennadius) were tested for resistance to several insecticides commonly used in Nicariagua. Assays were conducted to estimate the LD50s or LC50s and the corresponding resistance ratios. A diagnostic concentration was used to discriminate between susceptible and resistant strains of H. hampei. The tests with >6,000 H. hampei adults collected from six different sites indicate the absence of resistance to endosulfan. Resistance to cypermethrin, deltamethrin, chlorfluazuron, thiocyclam, and methamidophos was documented in six field populations of P. xylostella. High levels of resistance to cypermethrin and deltamethrin, but moderate levels of resistance to chlorpyriphos and methomyl, were also documented in two field populations of S. exigua. Moderate levels of resistance to cypermethrin, deltamethrin and chlorpyriphos were also documented in three field populations of H. zea. Moderate to high levels of resistance to bifenthrin, methamidophos and endosulfan were documented in four field populations of B. tabaci. The presence of significant correlations between LD50s or LC50s suggests the occurrence of cross-resistance or simultaneous selection for resistance by different insecticides with different modes of action. Our data could not differentiate between these two possibilities. Because insecticides will continue being used in Nicaragua, a resistance management program is urgently needed. The implementation of integrated pest management tactics must be accompanied by specific regulations for pesticide registration. In the future, pesticide registration regulations in Nicaragua should include periodic resistance monitoring. The mechanisms to cover the costs of resistance monitoring and resistance management should also be established.	1	pesticide
11193688	Insecticide resistance studies on Blattella germanica (Dictyoptera:Blattellidae) from Cuba.	We studied the levels of resistance to seven insecticides: malathion, chlorpyrifos, pirimiphos-methyl, propoxur, cypermethrin, deltamethrin, and lambda-cyhalothrin in nine strains of Blattella germanica (Linnaeus, 1717) collected from sites in Santiago de Cuba and Havana City. The strains from Santiago de Cuba, generally had high levels of resistance to malathion, cypermethrin, deltamethrin, and lambda-cyhalothrin, but only low levels of resistance to pirimiphos-methyl, chlorpyrifos, and propoxur. In the strains from Havana City we found a moderate resistance to the organophosphate insecticides, resistance to the pyrethroids (except for three strains that showed susceptibility to lambda-cyhalothrin), and susceptibility to the carbamate insecticide (propoxur).	1	pesticide
11197611	A new diquat derivative appropriate for colourimetric measurements of biological materials in the presence of paraquat.	A new colourimetric method is described for the quantification of diquat using a yellow-coloured derivative produced by heating diquat in alkaline solution at 80 degrees C. The absorption maximum of the yellow derivative is 420 nm and the molar absorption coefficient is 2.76 x 10(4) (0.15 in 1 microgram diquat/ml with 1 cm light path). The absorption at 420 nm shows a linear concentration dependence in the range 0.1-10 micrograms/ml and fading of the colour is about 5% after 1 h. Under the same conditions, paraquat does not produce any coloured products. The concentration of diquat in the solution containing both diquat and paraquat can be determined by the absorption of diquat derivative at 420 nm without interference from paraquat. By adding sodium dithionite to the solution the concentration of paraquat can be determined by the absorption of paraquat radicals at 600 nm without interference from diquat, because the yellow derivative does not react with dithionite. This yellow diquat derivative can be extracted completely with cyclohexanol by saturating the solution with Na2SO4. The absorption maximum in cyclohexanol shifts to 440 nm with the same molar absorbance and the same half-band width as in water. Fading of the colour is less than 5% after 24 h in cyclohexanol. Perchloric acid (3%) and trichloroacetic acid (4.5%) which are often used for deproteinization of tissue homogenates, do not inhibit production of the coloured derivative at pH 13.5 or extraction of the derivative with cyclohexanol. This method is suitable for a quick determination of small amounts of diquat in tissues, since the extraction with cyclohexanol not only concentrates the derivative rapidly but also quite efficiently eliminates the coloured substances in tissue homogenates. The detection limit of diquat is 0.02 microgram/ml for blood and 0.05 microgram/g for liver when 1 ml or 1 g is used for analysis. In three human cases of fatal intoxication, both paraquat and diquat were quantified using 50 microliters of serum. In non-toxic dosing of diquat to rats for 14 days, the diquat level was highest in the spleen followed by the kidneys.	1	pesticide
11198383	Demodex folliculorum causing pathological lesions in immunocompetent children.	Scabies and pediculosis are the vast major ectoparasites infesting man. Demodex folliculorum is unreported ectoparasite, since it is considered harmless. Marked pathologic infestations caused by D. folliculorum were diagnosed in five immunocompetent children, The infestations are successful treated with 2% permethrin cream.	1	pesticide
11198646	Spraying houses in the Peruvian Andes with lambda-cyhalothrin protects residents against cutaneous leishmaniasis.	A household vector control trial was carried out in the Peruvian Andes to measure the effect of spraying inside walls and ceilings with lambda-cyhalothrin on the risk for residents of cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania peruviana. The mortality rates of Lutzomyia verrucarum measured with WHO contact bioassay cones set on adobe walls characteristic of the endemic region indicated an LD95 for lambda-cyhalothrin of about 20 mg/m2, and no reduction in effectiveness for at least 6 months on indoor adobe walls sprayed with 25 mg/m2. A random selection of 112 houses were sprayed (starting in 1992/93) at 6-monthly intervals with a mean dose of 34 mg/m2, leaving 154 control houses (with closely matched pre-intervention measurements of incidence and sandfly abundance). Comparisons of pre- and post-intervention sandfly indoor abundance, measured at regular intervals for up to 2 years using CDC light traps, in 22 sprayed and 21 control houses demonstrated that spraying significantly reduced the indoor abundance of Lu. verrucarum by an average of 78% and of Lu. (Helcocyrtomyia) peruensis by 83%. Spraying was also associated with a significant reduction of 77% in the proportion of bloodfed sandflies collected in light traps. The proportion of susceptible householders acquiring leishmaniasis during the trial was significantly reduced by 54% as a result of spraying. The observed impact of spraying was greatest, 81% (95% confidence intervals 20-95%), when the cases detected during the first 6 months after the intervention were excluded from the analysis, suggesting a significant pre-patent period.	1	pesticide
11201430	Long term dynamics of dermanyssus gallinae in relation to mite control measures in aviary systems for layers.	1. The dynamics of the poultry red mite, Dermanyssus gallinae, in aviary systems for layers were studied in an empirical study in Sweden between 1994 and 1997. Fluctuations were monitored with mite traps at monthly intervals during 3 laying cycles at each of 2 commercial poultry farms. 2. When mites were first detected in the system it then took about 5 months for the populations to reach equilibrium levels around which they fluctuated. Within flocks when the population growth was unaffected by temporary control activities, it was demonstrated that the mite populations were significantly denser in summer than in winter. 3. Current control methods had limited effects as mite populations were only temporarily suppressed. One exception was the control achieved with permethrin impregnated plastic strips, which reduced the population at equilibrium level to approximately 22%, compared with the previous flock. 4. The distribution of mites was patchy horizontally, along the aviary system, at low burden wlhereas it became more evenly dispersed at equilibrium. 5. Significant differences in vertical mite distributions that correlated with the hybrids used and their rearing conditions were also observed. In flocks with brown hens, mites gathered at the lower tiers, whereas they were found at the highest tiers in association with white hens. As the hens are attacked mainly at night-time the most likely explanation is that the mites adjust their behavioural pattern to the birds' roosting behaviour.	1	pesticide
11215660	Potential mineralization of four herbicides in a ground water--fed wetland area.	Herbicides may leach from agricultural fields into ground water feeding adjacent wetlands. However, only little is known of the fate of herbicides in wetland areas. The purpose of the study was to examine the potential of a riparian fen to mineralize herbides that could leach from an adjacent catchment area. Slurries were prepared from sediment and ground water collected from different parts of a wetland representing different redox conditions. The slurries were amended with O2, NO3-, SO4(2-), and CO2, or CO2 alone as electron acceptors to simulate the in situ conditions and their ability to mineralize the herbides mecoprop, metsulfuron-methyl, isoproturon and atrazine. In addition, the abundance of bacteria able to utilize O2, NO3-, SO4(2-) + CO2, and CO2 as electron acceptors was investigated along with the O2-reducing and methanogenic potential of the sediment. The recalcitrance to bacterial degradation depended on both the type of herbicide and the redox conditions pertaining. Mecoprop was the most readily degraded herbicide, with 36% of [ring-U-14C]mecoprop being mineralized to 14CO2 under aerobic conditions after 473 d. In comparison, approximately 29% of [phenyl-U-14C]metsulfuron-methyl and 16% of [ring-U-14C]isoproturon mineralized in aerobic slurries during the same period. Surprisingly, 8 to 13% of mecoprop also mineralized under anaerobic conditions. Neither metsulfuron-methyl nor isoproturon were mineralized under anaerobic conditions and atrazine was not mineralized under any of the redox conditions examined. The present study is the first to report mineralization of meco-prop in ground water in a wetland area, and the first to report mineralization of a phenoxyalcanoic acid herbicide under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions.	1	pesticide
11215668	Fate of atrazine in sandy soil cropped with sorghum.	A field study was conducted to determine the fate of atrazine (6-chloro-N2-ethyl-N4-isopropyl-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine) within the root zone (0 to 90 cm) of a sandy soil cropped with sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] in Gainesville, Florida. Atrazine was uniformly applied at a rate of 1.12 kg ai. ha(-1) to a sorghum crop under moderate irrigation, optimum irrigation, and no irrigation (rainfed), 2 d after crop emergence. Bromide as a tracer for water movement was applied to the soil as NaBr at a rate of 45 kg Br ha(-1), 3 d before atrazine application. Soil water content, atrazine, and Br concentrations were determined as a function of time using soil samples taken from the root zone. Atrazine sorption coefficients and degradation rates were determined by depth for the entire root zone in the laboratory. Atrazine was strongly adsorbed within the upper 30 cm of soil and most of the atrazine recovered from the soil during the growing season was in that depth. The estimated half-life for atrazine was 32 d in topsoil to 83 d in subsoil. Atrazine concentration within the root zone decreased from 0.44 kg ai. ha(-1) 2 days after application (DAA) to 0.1 kg a.i. ha(-1) 26 DAA. Negligible amounts of atrazine (approximately 5 microg kg(-1)) were detected below the 60-cm soil depth by 64 DAA. Most of the decrease in atrazine concentration in the root zone over time was attributed to degradation. In contrast, all applied bromide had leached past the 60-cm soil depth during the same time interval.	1	pesticide
11226373	Induction of cytochrome P450 1A1 gene expression, oxidative stress, and genotoxicity by carbaryl and thiabendazole in transfected human HepG2 and lymphoblastoid cells.	Carbaryl and thiabendazole, two widely used pesticides, have been shown to induce cytochrome P450 1A1 (CYP1A1) expression, but neither compound is capable of displacing [3H] 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-P-dioxin from its aryl hydrocarbon receptor binding site. In the present study, we investigated the transcriptional regulation of CYP1A1 as well as other genes in various human hepatoma HepG2 cell lines stably transfected with the chloramphenicol acetyl transferase (CAT) reporter gene and cloned under the control of each of 14 promoters or response elements from relevant stress genes. Carbaryl and thiabendazole were found to activate CYP1A1 at the level of transcription, as demonstrated by the dose-dependent increase in reporter CAT and CYP1A1 mRNAs. Moreover, this effect appeared to be mediated via the xenobiotic responsive element (XRE), because both pesticides specifically activated various fusion constructs containing XRE sequences (CYP1A, glutathione S-transferase, and XRE). Carbaryl and to a lesser extent thiabendazole also activated other stress genes such as c-fos and NF-kappaBRE, HSP70 and GRP78, and GADD153 at a transcriptional level. These data suggest that these molecules induce early alert genes, including those known to be sensitive to oxidative stress. This led us to examine the genotoxic effect of carbaryl and thiabendazole by an in vitro DNA repair solid-phase assay. Both compounds provoked a strong DNA-damaging activity in the human lymphoblastoid cell line that constitutively expresses human CYP1A1 cDNA, but not in the parental line, indicating that CYP1A1 is chiefly implicated in carbaryl and thiabendazole genotoxicity. This effect was confirmed on HepG2 cells. These observations support the notion that intracellular signals leading to CYP1A1 induction, oxidative stress, and genotoxicity are intimately related.	1	pesticide
11233105	Impact of four insecticides on Japanese beetle (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) egg predators and white grubs in turfgrass.	Field experiments were conducted to measure the effects of four commonly used turfgrass insecticides (isofenphos, diazinon, imidacloprid, halofenozide) on white grubs (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) and ant predators of white grub eggs. Ant populations were measured over time with canned tuna, whereas predation by the ants was measured with artificially placed Japanese beetle, Popillia japonica Newman, eggs. The effectiveness of each insecticide at controlling Japanese beetle grubs, when applied at different times during the growing season, also was measured. Isofenphos and diazinon significantly reduced both ant numbers and white grub egg predation, whereas imidacloprid and one halofenozide treatment did not significantly impact either measurement. A second halofenozide treatment significantly reduced white grub egg predation. Isofenphos and diazinon were ineffective at controlling Japanese beetle grubs when applied in June but were highly efficacious when applied in August. Evidence of enhanced biodegradation was found in plots that received both June and August applications of diazinon. Both June and August applications of imidacloprid and halofenozide provided good control of white grubs.	1	pesticide
11260728	Topical treatment of calves with synthetic pyrethroids: effects on the non-target dung fly Neomyia cornicina (Diptera: Muscidae).	Dung from calves treated with synthetic pyrethroids negatively influenced, in varying degrees, survival, reproduction and size of the common dung fly Neomyia cornicina (Fabricius). This was documented in assays where the coprophagous larvae and adults of N. cornicina were exposed to dung collected from calves dosed with topical preparations of deltamethrin, flumethrin, cyfluthrin, and alpha-cypermethrin. Larval mortality was significantly increased in dung collected up to at least seven days after treatment with deltamethrin, alpha-cypermethrin and cyfluthrin. Alpha-cypermethrin caused significant mortality of adults allowed to feed on moist dung. Nulliparous flies fed for six days on dung collected three days after treatment of calves with alpha-cypermethrin or deltamethrin showed little or no ovarian development. A tendency for a comparable effect with flumethrin was also observed. A connection between ovarian development and inhibition of feeding was indicated by the observation of significantly lowered excretion rates in flies exposed to residues of deltamethrin, alpha-cypermethrin and flumethrin. Larvae that survived exposure to dung from calves dosed with deltamethrin, alpha-cypermethrin, or cyfluthrin gave rise to smaller flies. The effect on adult fly size decreased when larvae were exposed to dung collected at longer times after treatment of the calves. Adult fly size was significantly reduced in dung collected up to 14 days (alpha-cypermethrin) or up to 28 days after treatment (deltamethrin and cyfluthrin). Fluctuating asymmetry of a wing vein character did not reflect the anticipated levels of exposure. The study strongly indicated that the use of synthetic pyrethroids affected the insect dung fauna and that such use may reduce dung decomposition.	1	pesticide
11263924	A concise enantioselective synthesis of antimalarial febrifugine alkaloids.	Reaction of (S)-2-(tert-butyldiphenylsilyloxy)-5-(mesyloxy)pentanal with hydroxylamine in allyl alcohol brought about simultaneous 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition of the resulting nitrone to allyl alcohol to give three diastereoisomeric adducts, from which (+)-febrifugine and (+)-isofebrifugine, potent antimalarial alkaloids, were synthesized.	1	pesticide
11271480	Rapid determination of fungicides in fruit juices by micellar electrokinetic chromatography: use of organic modifiers to enhance selectivity and on-column high-salt stacking to improve sensitivity.	A rapid, reliable method for the multiresidue analysis of eight commonly used fungicides by micellar electrokinetic chromatography (MEKC) was developed. Excellent separation of the eight fungicides (carbendazim, metalaxyl, captan, procymidone, folpet, captafol, vinclozolin and iprodione) is achieved within about 10 min by using optimized electrophoretic conditions that include the addition of a mixture of organic modifiers to the running buffer for improved resolution. The sensitivity of the method is enhanced by using an enrichment step that involves on-column high-salt stacking. Limits of detection in the microgram-per-liter region and relative standard deviations from 2.1 to 5.9% are thus obtained for the fungicides without detracting from peak resolution. These results reveal that the high-salt stacking method provides highly improved sensitivity and enables highly flexible adjustment of the selectivity of the separation method. Also, the method surpasses other stacking alternatives used in MEKC and affords routine analyses of fruit juice containing fungicides at trace levels following a straightforward sample treatment. The robustness of the high-salt stacking method as demonstrated in this work makes MEKC methods involving stacking procedures an attractive choice for routine analyses.	1	pesticide
11274874	Comparing cognitive and screening tests for neurotoxicity. Effects of acute chlorpyrifos on visual signal detection and a neurobehavioral test battery in rats.	It is often assumed that cognitive function is more sensitive to neurotoxic chemicals than are the unconditioned behaviors employed in neurobehavioral screens; however, direct comparisons of the sensitivity of these test methods are lacking. The present studies were conducted to compare the effects of the widely used cholinesterase-inhibiting insecticide, chlorpyrifos (O,O'-diethyl O-3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridyl phosphorothionate, CPF), on a visual signal detection task (SDT) with its effects on a neurobehavioral test battery. Adult male Long-Evans rats were trained to perform the SDT, dosed with CPF, and then assessed with both test instruments. Oral CPF (50 mg/kg) impaired signal detection for 8 days, and subcutaneous CPF (250 mg/kg) did so for 4 weeks. CPF (30 and 50 mg/kg po and 250 mg/kg sc) also lowered activity in the test battery for up to 18 days. Thus, CPF impaired attention and altered behavior in the test battery in the same dose ranges under two very different dosing scenarios.	1	pesticide
11282607	Quantification of trichothecene-producing Fusarium species in harvested grain by competitive PCR to determine efficacies of fungicides against Fusarium head blight of winter wheat.	We developed a PCR-based assay to quantify trichothecene-producing Fusarium based on primers derived from the trichodiene synthase gene (Tri5). The primers were tested against a range of fusarium head blight (FHB) (also known as scab) pathogens and found to amplify specifically a 260-bp product from 25 isolates belonging to six trichothecene-producing Fusarium species. Amounts of the trichothecene-producing Fusarium and the trichothecene mycotoxin deoxynivalenol (DON) in harvested grain from a field trial designed to test the efficacies of the fungicides metconazole, azoxystrobin, and tebuconazole to control FHB were quantified. No correlation was found between FHB severity and DON in harvested grain, but a good correlation existed between the amount of trichothecene-producing Fusarium and DON present within grain. Azoxystrobin did not affect levels of trichothecene-producing Fusarium compared with those of untreated controls. Metconazole and tebuconazole significantly reduced the amount of trichothecene-producing Fusarium in harvested grain. We hypothesize that the fungicides affected the relationship between FHB severity and the amount of DON in harvested grain by altering the proportion of trichothecene-producing Fusarium within the FHB disease complex and not by altering the rate of DON production. The Tri5 quantitative PCR assay will aid research directed towards reducing amounts of trichothecene mycotoxins in food and animal feed.	1	pesticide
11289702	Effects of daily dermal application of DEET and epermethrin, alone and in combination, on sensorimotor performance, blood-brain barrier, and blood-testis barrier in rats.	DEET and permethrin were implicated in the development of illnesses in some veterans of the Persian Gulf War. This study was designed to investigate the effects of daily dermal application of these chemicals, alone or in combination, on the permeability of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and blood-testes barrier (BTB) and on sensorimotor performance in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Groups of five rats were treated with a dermal daily dose of 4, 40, or 400 mg/kg DEET in ethanol or 0.013, 0.13, or 1.3 mg/kg permethrin in ethanol for 60 d. A group of 10 rats received a daily dermal dose of ethanol and served as controls. BBB permeability was assessed by injection of an iv dose of the quaternary ammonium compound [3H]hexamethonium iodide. While permethrin produced no effect on BBB permeability, DEET alone caused a decrease in BBB permeability in brainstem. A combination of DEET and permethrin significantly decreased the BBB permeability in the cortex. BTB permeability was decreased by treatment with DEET alone and in combination with permethrin. The same animals underwent a battery of functional behavior tests 30, 45, and 60 d after exposure to evaluate their sensorimotor abilities. All treatments caused a significant decline in sensorimotor performance in a dose- and time-dependent manner. These results show that daily dermal exposure to DEET, alone or in combination with permethrin, decreased BBB permeability in certain brain regions, and impaired sensorimotor performance.	1	pesticide
11323143	Chronic low-level administration of diquat increases the nociceptive response to gastric distension in rats: role of mast cells and tachykinin receptor activation.	Dietary factors can modulate visceral sensitivity and are suggested to interact with neuroimmune pathways. To determine whether daily low-level exposure to a food contaminant (diquat) alters sensitivity to gastric distension (GD) and the role of mast cells and tachykinin receptors activation, two series of experiments were conducted in eight groups of eight male Wistar rats (200-250 g) receiving daily doses of either diquat (0.1 mg/kg per day orally) or water for 21 days. In the first series, rats were sacrificed at the end of treatments and the gastric mucosal mast cell (MMC) number was histologically quantified. In the second series, after 21 days of treatment the cardiovascular depressor (CVD) response and corresponding gastric volumes were recorded under GD (from 10 to 40 mmHg). Doxantrazole (5 mg/kg intraperitoneally (i.p.)), a mast cell stabilizer, and SR 140333 (1 mg/kg i.p.) and MEN 11420 (0.1 mg/kg intravenously), respectively NK1 and NK2 receptor antagonists, were administered before GD. Before and after GD, blood samples were taken to measure blood histamine and the gastric MMC number was determined after sacrifice. Diquat treatment increased the MMC number. In diquat-treated rats, GD increased the CVD response and blood histamine level and induced MMC degranulation. Doxantrazole did not modify the hypersensitivity to GD but prevented mast cell degranulation. Both NK1 and NK2 receptor antagonists blocked the enhanced CVD response induced by diquat and prevented mast cell degranulation. None of the drugs had any effect in control animals. Prolonged exposure to a food contaminant at doses possibly found in food increases gastric sensitivity to distension, activates tachykinin receptors and results in MMC degranulation after GD.	1	pesticide
11332540	A randomization test-based method for risk assessment in neurotoxicology.	A current trend in risk assessment for systemic toxicity (noncancer) endpoints is to utilize the observable range of the dose-effect curve in order to estimate the likelihood of obtaining effects at lower concentrations. Methods to accomplish this endeavor are typically based on variability in either the effects of fixed doses (benchmark approaches), or on variability in the doses producing a fixed effect (probabilistic or tolerance-distribution approaches). The latter method may be particularly desirable because it can be used to determine variability in the effect of an agent in a population, which is an important goal of risk assessment. This method of analysis, however, has typically been accomplished using dose-effect data from individual subjects, which can be impractical in toxicology. A new method is therefore presented that can use traditional groups-design data to generate a set of dose-effect functions. Population tolerances for a specific effect can then be estimated from these model dose-effect functions. It is based on the randomization test, which assesses the generality of a data set by comparing it to a data set constructed from randomized combinations of single point estimates. The present article describes an iterative line-fitting program that generates such a data set and then uses it to provide risk assessments for two pesticides, triadimefon and carbaryl. The effects of these pesticides were studied on the locomotor activity of laboratory rats, a common neurobehavioral end point. Triadimefon produced dose-dependent increases in activity, while carbaryl produced dose-dependent decreases in activity. Risk figures derived from the empirical distribution of individual dose-effect functions were compared to those from the iterative line-fitting program. The results indicate that the method generates comparable risk figures, although potential limitations are also described.	1	pesticide
11337839	Presence of carbamate pesticides in environmental waters from the northwest of Mexico: determination by liquid chromatography.	A study on the presence of carbamate pesticides, namely aldicarb, aldicarb sulfoxide, baygon, benthiocarb, carbofuran, 3-hydroxycarbofuran, carbaryl, desmedipham, methiocarb, methomyl, thiodicarb, oxamyl, and propham was made in ground and surface waters from an agricultural zone of the Yaqui Valley located in northwest Mexico. Trace determinations were made by liquid chromatography (LC) with post-column fluorescence detection (EPA method 531.1) or LC-diode array UV detection coupled on-line to a solid-phase extraction (SPE) system and using a 13 x 4.6 mm i.d. precolumn and a 150 x 4.6 mm i.d. analytical column, both packed with a C18 silica. Results indicated that the level of contamination with methiocarb was 5.4 micrograms/L in a groundwater sample and that for 3-hydroxycarbofuran was 18 micrograms/L in a surface water sample. This study provides the basis for a future monitoring program.	1	pesticide
11337869	Atrazine remediation in wetland microcosms.	Laboratory wetland microcosms were used to study treatment of atrazine in irrigation runoff by a field-scale-constructed wetland under controlled conditions. Three experiments, in which 1 ppm atrazine was added to the water column of three wetland, one soil control, and one water control microcosm, were conducted. Atrazine dissipation from the water column and degradate formation (deethylatrazine [DEA]; deisopropylatrazine [DIA]; and hydroxyatrazine [HA]) were monitored. Atrazine dissipation from the water column of wetland microcosms was biphasic. Less than 12% of the atrazine applied to wetland microcosms remained in the water column on day 56. Atrazine degradates were observed in water and sediment, with HA the predominant degradate. Analysis of day 56 sediment samples indicated that a significant portion of the initial application was detected as the parent compound and HA. Most probable number (MPN) assays demonstrated that atrazine degrader populations were small in wetland sediment. Wetland microcosms were able to reduce atrazine concentration in the water column via sorption and degradation. Based on results from this study, it is hypothesized that plant uptake contributed to atrazine dissipation from the water column.	1	pesticide
11352027	Occurrence and spatial and temporal distribution of pesticide residues in groundwater of major corn-growing areas of Greece (1996-1997).	During 1996-1997, residues of selected pesticides were monitored, at 3-month intervals, in 80 wells, including both irrigation and drinking water wells, distributed among the main corn-growing areas (Pieria, Thessaloniki, Serres, Kavala, and Evros) of Greece. Pesticide residues were found in 48% of the wells; however, in most cases residues were very low ranging from LOQs (quantification limits of the analytical methods) to <0.1 microg/L, while in 11% (nine wells) pesticide residues higher than 0.1 microg/L were present. Most of the latter wells were found in Evros and specificallythe Ardas Valley. The frequency of occurrence, in descending order, was atrazine > DEA > alachlor = metolachlor; however, the order of descending concentrations was atrazine > metolachlor > DEA > alachlor. The occurrence and the spatial and temporal distribution patterns of pesticide residues indicate that at the present the situation of groundwater quality is favorable throughout the corn-growing areas of Greece with the exception of the Ardas Valley.	1	pesticide
11355145	Exploring the mechanisms of action of FB642 at the cellular level.	FB642(methyl-2-benzimidazolecarbamate, carbendazim) is a systemic fungicide belonging to the benzimidazole family with antitumor activity against a broad spectrum of tumors both in vitro and in vivo such as pancreas, prostate, colon, and breast. Although the preclinical antitumor activity of FB642 has been well explored, its mechanism of action has not been as well delineated. Previous studies indicate that FB642 may interfere with mitosis and thus may disrupt or inhibit microtubule function resulting in apoptosis. This study seeks to determine if FB642 is a sufficiently novel agent worthy of further development by examining the effect of FB642 on apoptosis, the cell cycle, p53-positive and -negative tumors, and drug-resistant and MDR cell lines. The results of this present study indicate that FB642 increases the degree of apoptosis in all examined tumor cell lines, may induce G2/M uncoupling, may selectively kill p53 abnormal cells, and exhibits antitumor activity in drug- and multidrug-resistant cell lines. The induction of apoptosis by FB642, particularly in p53-deficient cells, its impressive in vivo activity against a broad spectrum of murine and human tumors, as well as an acceptable toxicity profile in animals, make FB642 an excellent candidate for further evaluation in clinical trials in cancer patients.	1	pesticide
11358241	Screening for transformation products of pesticides using tandem mass spectrometric scan modes.	The applicability of tandem mass spectrometric (MS-MS) scan modes such as constant neutral-loss and precursor-ion scanning to screen for unknown transformation products (TPs) of pesticides at environmentally relevant concentrations (low-microng/l level) is studied. The selection of the MS-MS scan modes is based on the product-ion scan of the parent pesticide, and TPs are detected which are unaltered in the part of the structure concerned. The screening approach is applied to a surface water sample spiked with atrazine and three known TPs at a level of 3 microg/l to study the possibility to extract the TPs from the total ion chromatogram. Next, the approach is used to identify unknown TPs formed after (bio)degradation of two test compounds, fenchlorazole-ethyl (FCE) and furathiocarb (FTC). By using the precursor-ion scan mode, two TPs were detected after biodegradation of FCE, fenchlorazole-methyl and fenchlorazole; in surface water only fenchlorazole was found. The constant neutral-loss scan mode was used to identify carbofuran as TP of FTC. The added value of the proposed procedure is the increased selectivity at the cost of sensitivity. Best results are, therefore, obtained for samples which contain large amounts of matrix constituents.	1	pesticide
11378152	Potential dermal and inhalation exposure to chlorpyrifos in Australian pesticide workers.	Chlorpyrifos inhalation, dermal exposure and working practices of 28 pesticide applicators in Western Australia were assessed during a series of single property applications of a 0.5% (n=2) or 1% (n=26) concentration of active ingredient in water solution. Deposition on new cotton gloves worn beneath applicators' usual protective gloves was 2.4 (range 0.12-86.1) mg h(-1). Median deposition of chlorpyrifos onto a new cotton overall worn over other clothing (24 sections removed, corrected for body proportions) was 11.1 (range 0.2-41.9) mg h(-1). Deposition onto seven patches taped to the applicators' skin was 0.04 (range 0.01-4.7) mg h(-1). Inhalation concentration was 5.7 (range 0.7-219) microg m(-3) time weighted average. In one group of 17 applicators' applying to existing properties, breathing zone air concentration correlated (P<0.05) with ambient air temperature (15-38 degrees C). The questionnaire results (29 respondents) indicated applicators' practices led to increased exposure, in particular concerning poor usage and condition of protective equipment and a high frequency of splashes and spills onto the body. Prevention of deposition on clothing, in particular on the lower body is suggested, as well as improved working practices.	1	pesticide
11379047	Immunotoxicological investigation of subacute combined exposure by permethrin and the heavy metals arsenic(III) and mercury(II) in rats.	Effects of combined 28 days of oral exposure to the insecticide Permethrin (Pe), alone or in combination with arsenic-III (As) or Hg-II (Hg), were investigated on certain toxicological (body weight, organ weights), haematological (white blood cell (WBC) and red blood cell (RBC) counts, haematocrit (Ht), mean cell volume (MCV), cell content of the femoral bone marrow) and immune function (IgM-PFC, delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) reaction) parameters of male Wistar rats. Immunotoxic (H = high) and NOEL (L = low) doses of the three substances were determined in preliminary experiments under identical experimental conditions. In the present study, the immunotoxic dose of Pe (126 mg/kg) was combined with the NOEL dose of As (3.33 mg/kg) or Hg (0.40 mg/kg), and the NOEL dose of Pe (12.6 mg/kg) with the immunotoxic dose of As (13.3 mg/kg) or Hg (3.20 mg/kg). A separate group of animals, treated with the appropriate high dose component only, was used as internal control. Significant interactions were observed in the liver weight of the animals treated with Pe(H)-As(L) or As(H)-Pe(L), in the cell content of the femoral bone marrow in case of Pe(H)-As(L) and Pe(H)-Hg(L) combinations, as well as in the number of PFCs formed from 10(6) spleen cells in the Pe(H)-As(L) and in the maximum of DTH reaction in the Hg(H)-Pe(L) combination. The results show that combined exposures by the investigated substances modify the toxic (including immunotoxic) effects of the single compounds. These findings rise the probability that the interactions observed can also be present in human situations altering the health hazard of this three chemicals.	1	pesticide
11383340	Chlordane components and metabolites in seven species of Arctic seabirds from the Northwater Polynya: relationships with stable isotopes of nitrogen and enantiomeric fractions of chiral components.	The Northwater Polynya (NOW) is a large area of year-round open water found in the high Arctic between Ellesmere Island and Greenland. NOW has high biological productivity compared with other arctic marine areas, and supports large populations of several seabird species. Seven species of seabirds, dovekie (Alle alle, DOVE), thick-billed murre (Uria lomvia, TBMU), black guillemot (Cepphus grylle, BLGU), black-legged kittiwake (Rissa tridactyla, BLKI), ivory gull (Pagophila eburnea, IVGU), glaucous gull (Larus hyperboreus, GLGU) and northern fulmar (Fulmaris glacialis, NOFU) were collected in May and June 1998 to determine chlordane concentrations in liver and fat and to examine species differences, relationships with stable isotopes of nitrogen, and enantiomeric fractions (EFs) of chiral components. sigma CHLOR concentrations varied over an order of magnitude among species, from a low of 176 +/- 19 ng/g (lipid corrected) in TMBU liver to a high of 3190 +/- 656 ng/g (lipid corrected) in NOFU liver. Lipid-corrected concentrations of chlordane did not vary between sex for any species or between fat and liver except for the DOVE, that had fat concentrations that were significantly greater than the liver. delta 15N values described a significant percentage of the variability of concentrations for most chlordane components, although less than what has been reported for whole food chains. Slopes of delta 15N versus concentration of chlordane components and sigma CHLOR were similar with the exception of those which were metabolized (trans-chlordane) or formed through biotransformation (oxychlordane). The relative proportions of chlordane components in seabirds were related to phylogeny; the procellariid (NOFU) had the greatest percentage of oxychlordane (> 70%), followed by the larids (BLKI, IVGU and GLGU; 40-50%) and the alcids (DOVE and BLGU; 10-20%). The exception was TBMU, an alcid, where oxychlordane made up > 40% of its chlordane. EFs of chiral components failed to predict concentration or trophic level, but did identify biotransformation differences between species and chlordane components. TBMU appeared to have a greater capacity to metabolize and eliminate chlordane, based on high proportions of oxychlordane, the highest EFs for oxychlordane and heptachlor epoxide, and a delta 15N-sigma CHLOR value which was well below the relationships developed for all seabird species.	1	pesticide
11415437	Glutathione S-transferases as antioxidant defence agents confer pyrethroid resistance in Nilaparvata lugens.	Selection of a laboratory colony of the brown planthopper Nilaparvata lugens with the pyrethroids permethrin and lambda-cyhalothrin increased its resistance to both insecticides. Biochemical analysis and synergistic studies with metabolic inhibitors indicated that elevated glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) with a predominant peroxidase activity conferred resistance to both pyrethroids, whereas esterases conferred part of the resistance to permethrin. Purified esterases hydrolysed permethrin at a slow rate, but incubation of either pyrethroid or their primary metabolites with partially purified GSTs had no effect on the metabolic profile. Although GSTs were sensitive to inhibition by both pyrethroids, they did not serve as binding proteins, as previously hypothesized [Grant and Matsumura (1988) Insect Biochem. 18, 615-622]. We demonstrate that pyrethroids, in addition to their neurotoxic effect, induce oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation in insects. Pyrethroid exposure induced lipid peroxides, protein oxidation and depleted reduced glutathione. Elevated GSTs in the resistant strains attenuated the pyrethroid-induced lipid peroxidation and reduced mortality, whereas their in vivo inhibition eliminated their protective role. We therefore hypothesize that the main role of elevated GSTs in conferring resistance in N. lugens is through protecting tissues from oxidative damage. Our study extends the GSTs' range of efficacy to pyrethroid insecticides and possibly explains the role of elevated GSTs in other pyrethroid-resistant insects.	1	pesticide
11431993	[Cloning and fusion expression of detoxifying gene in Escherichia coli].	In insects, esterases play an important role in the degradation of organophosphate (OP) and Carbamate (CB) insecticides. The ability of esterase B1 to degrading OP and CB insecticides opens broad prospect of using it in programs to the insecticide pollution. OPs can be detoxified by hydrolysis of their phosphoester bonds, pyrethroids and some OPs like malathion, by hydrolysis of their carboxylester bonds, and diverse carbamate insecticides, herbicides and fungicides by hydrolysis of amide or other similar bonds. Most of the candidate bioremediation enzymes identified to date have been hydrolases. In recent years, we have focused our work on the transfer of a detoxifying esterase B1 gene from mosquito into E. coli and explored the possibility of using the detoxified enzymes in environmental protection. 5' initial of esterase B1 cDNA was cloned by RT-PCR and sequenced consequently. After the combination of 5' initial and 3' terminal fragment of esterase B1 cDNA, the recombinant vector pET-ESTB1 was constructed and transformed into E. coli BL21. A 60 kD protein was induced by IPTG and its expression was temperature-dependent. After 12 h induction, the target protein occupied 27% of the total protein. A pure recombinant protein was obtained by purification, and was detected with 10% SDS-PAGE. The results showed that 22.1% of malathion was degraded by crude detoxification enzyme in 15 mins, demonstrated a high degradation property. This research provides a novel approach, which takes the advantages of eucaryotes for bioremediation of pesticide pollutions.	1	pesticide
11434996	Changes in concentration of pesticide residues in potatoes during washing and home preparation.	"Monitoring of pesticide residues in potato tubers and their prepared products (""pommes frites"" and chips) was undertaken. Experiments were carried out to determine changes in concentration due to the washing, peeling and cooking process (blanching and frying) to assess the stability of pesticides in potatoes and their products. Pesticide residues were quantified by using gas chromatography. Results show that malathion, HCB, lindane and p,p-DDD were predominant in potatoes and their products. The highest mean was detected in potatoes, followed by pommes frites, while the lowest mean was recorded in chips. On the other hand, potato skin samples were found to contain the highest levels of DDT and its derivatives, lindane and HCB. Peeling was necessary to remove the greatest amount of pesticides in the skin. Washing with water and/or other solutions as well as the cooking process (blanching and frying) helped to eliminate most of the pesticide residues from the potato tubers."	1	pesticide
11442037	Integrated pulsed amperometric detection of glufosinate, bialaphos and glyphosate at gold electrodes in anion-exchange chromatography.	A rapid and practical method for direct detection of the herbicides (glufosinate, bialaphos and glyphosate) in anion-exchange chromatography has been developed with integrated pulsed amperometric detection (IPAD). The electrochemical behavior of these herbicides showed catalytic currents based on the oxidation of amines in their structures. Waveform in IPAD was similar to that for amino acids, which exhibited adsorption/desorption catalytic features at gold electrode surface in alkaline solution. Under optimized conditions, detection limits (signal-to-noise ratio of 3) for glufosinate, bialaphos and glyphosate were 20, 65 and 50 ng ml(-1), respectively, with correlation coefficients of 0.995, 0.997 and 0.996 over concentration ranges of 0.1-45, 0.3-32 and 0.1-50 microg ml(-1), respectively. The relative standard deviations (n=5) were 1.7-3.0%. The present method was successfully applied to the determination of glyphosate in urine and serum.	1	pesticide
11464396	Agricultural exposure to carbamate pesticides and risk of non-Hodgkin lymphoma.	Recent epidemiological studies have suggested an increased risk of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) from carbamate insecticide use among farmers. To further explore the possible relationships, we conducted a pooled analysis of three population-based case-control studies conducted in four midwestern states in the United States. A total of 985 white male subjects and 2895 control subjects were included in this analysis. Unconditional logistic regression was used to estimate the association and control for confounding. Compared with nonfarmers, farmers who had ever used carbamate pesticides had a 30% to 50% increased risk of NHL, whereas farmers without carbamate pesticide use showed no increased risk. Analyses for individual carbamate pesticides found a more consistent association with Sevin but not carbofuran, butylate, or S-ethyl dipropylthiocarbamate plus protectant. Among farmers using Sevin, the risk of NHL was limited to those who personally handled the product, those who first used the product for > or = 20 years before their disease diagnosis, and those who used the product for a longer period. These associations persisted after adjusting for other major classes of pesticides. These results suggest an increased risk of NHL associated with carbamate pesticide use, particularly Sevin. Further investigation of the association is warranted.	1	pesticide
11482672	Enhanced transport of pesticides in a field trial with treated sewage sludge.	This study was designed to provide high-density data on spatial distribution of three herbicides with different physiochemical characteristics in a sludge-amended and non-amended control field over the course of an irrigation season. The field experiment was carried out on a sandy loam Hamra Red Mediterranean soil (Rhodoxeralf) at Bet Dagan, Israel. After a single 50 mm irrigation event, the mean centers of mass (COM) in the control field were at 15.6, 14.9, and 17 cm for bromacil, atrazine and terbuthylazine, respectively; in the sludge-amended field, mean COMs were at 28.8, 31.2, and 34.1 cm, respectively. After 500 mm of irrigation in the control field, the COM depth distribution of the three pesticides was inversely correlated with octanol-water (Kow) distribution coefficients and soil sorption coefficients (Koc), and positively correlated with aqueous solubilities. After 500 mm irrigation in the sludge-amended field, the mean terbuthylazine COM was at 19.8 cm versus 13.8 cm for the control field, demonstrating a sustained enhanced effect on terbuthylazine transport. Downward transport of atrazine was also enhanced by sludge amendment, albeit less than terbuthylazine. Bromacil was preferentially accumulated in the upper soil layers of the sludge-amended field as compared with the control field after 500 mm irrigation. The enhanced transport of all three pesticides in the sludge-amended field after a single irrigation event is attributed to development of preferential flow pathways around hydrophobic clods of sludge. Enhanced transport of terbuthylazine, and to a lesser extent, atrazine, throughout the irrigation season, is attributed to their transport as complexes with dissolved, colloidal and suspended organic matter derived from sludge degradation.	1	pesticide
11482681	Effect of sludge-amendment or nutrient addition on the biodegradation of the herbicide isoproturon in soil.	Adding sludge to agricultural soil results in added organic matter, nutrients and metallic and/or organic pollutants. These components may modify the behaviour of pesticides in the soil. We monitored possible changes in the degradation of the herbicide isoproturon (production of CO2 and degradation products) in soil amended with sludge, heavy metals or nitrogen and phosphorus. The treated and control soils were incubated under controlled conditions for 60 days. The nitrogen and phosphorus had the greatest effect on isoproturon degradation, independent of the presence of pollutants. Mineralisation of the herbicide to CO2 was slow and seemed to be linked to a fast degradation and to the accumulation of a complex degradation product that was neither catabolized nor adsorbed, 4,4'-diisopropylazobenzene. This degradation pathway also produced smaller amounts of non-extractable residues. Sewage sludge had no significant effect on isoproturon degradation, despite a large increase of organic matter mineralisation (factor 2).	1	pesticide
11503069	Toxicity of fipronil and its degradation products to Procambarus sp.: field and laboratory studies.	Fipronil is a phenylpyrazole insecticide that is the active ingredient in the pesticide Icon 6.2 FS which is applied to rice seeds targeting the rice water weevil. An arthropod-selective insecticide, fipronil blocks the GABA-gated chloride channel and is unique in that several of its degradation products have been indicated to be equal or more potent than fipronil. After application of rice seeds (2-3 days postplant) to flooded rice fields, water is typically pumped from the rice fields and can be used for the culture of crayfish (Procambarus sp.). Because fipronil is selective for arthropods, is transported via organic sediment, and crayfish consume organic sediment, 96-h LC(50) experiments were conducted with fipronil and three of its environmental derivatives in crayfish under conditions without carrier solvents in water of similar pH, alkalinity, and hardness as observed in south Louisiana crayfish culture ponds. Measured LC(50)s for fipronil to red swamp (Procambarus clarkii) and white river (Procambarus zonangulus) crayfish were 14.3 (95% CI; 5.1-23.4) and 19.5 (95% CI; 11.1-27.9) microg/L, respectively. LC(50)s of fipronil sulfone (11.2; 9.2-13.2 microg/L), fipronil sulfide (15.5; 13-18 microg/L); and the photoproduct, desulfinyl fipronil (68.6; 46-95.2 microg/L) displayed very high toxicity in crayfish. In situ toxicity studies using caged crayfish in culturing ponds receiving effluent from drained rice fields indicated that effluent from rice fields planted with Icon-treated seed was significantly more toxic compared to untreated surface water (40% survival compared to 83% survival). Hazard quotient comparisons using measured water concentrations in the field and laboratory-based LC(50)s indicated that fipronil and its metabolites in water resulting from Icon-treated rice seed planting poses a significant risk to crayfish survival.	1	pesticide
11516710	Genotoxicity studies of three triazine herbicides: in vivo studies using the alkaline single cell gel (SCG) assay.	Triazine herbicides are prevalent contaminants of groundwater in the agricultural regions of the United States. The literature on the genotoxicity of triazines is rife with conflicting data, though the general tendency is for most studies to report negative results. In order to investigate further the genotoxicity of triazines, we exposed mice to triazines by intraperitoneal injection up to the maximum tolerated doses. About 24h later, blood was removed, and the leukocytes subjected to DNA damage analysis using the alkaline single cell gel electrophoresis assay (SCG), one of the most sensitive DNA damage assays available. Our results indicate that atrazine induced a small dose-related increase in DNA damage. Simazine did not induce any dose-related increase in DNA damage. Cyanazine induced a marginal increase in DNA damage with dose, but no individual dose was significantly increased compared to the control. These results indicate that these triazines, even at extremely high concentrations, have only marginal DNA-damaging activity in vivo in mouse leukocytes.	1	pesticide
11517686	[Medical and biological assessment of genetically modified corn line MON 810 resistant to European corn borer and line GA 21 resistant to glyphosate: a chemical study].	Chemical analysis of genetically modified corns MON 810 resistance to European corn borer and GA 21 tolerance to glyphosphate was performed. Results of these studies showed that there is no difference between genetically modified and conventional corn products.	1	pesticide
11517727	Is attract-and-kill technology potent against insecticide-resistant Lepidoptera?	Attract-and-kill techniques, associating an attractant and a contact insecticide in a sticky formulation, are a new way of controlling Lepidopteran pests. Insecticide resistance may, however, limit the effectiveness and even the attractiveness of such formulations where resistance pleiotropic effects influence pheromone perception. We have tested this hypothesis on resistant codling moths Cydia pomonella (L) using a commercial formulation containing (E,E)-8,10-dodecadien-1-ol (codlemone), the major component of the sex pheromone, as an attractant and permethrin as toxicant. We first compared the attractiveness of codlemone in a wind tunnel and the contact toxicity of pyrethroids on males of one susceptible and of three strains selected for resistance to diflubenzuron, deltamethrin and azinphos-methyl. The dose-response relationships of males of susceptible and resistant strains to codlemone did not differ significantly. The deltamethrin-selected strain was the most resistant to pyrethroids, exhibiting 138-, 25- and 18-fold resistance ratios to deltamethrin, cypermethrin and permethrin, respectively. The efficiency of the attracticide formulation, applied successively on filter paper support, glass support and wood support, was estimated by recording the mortality delay of males after natural contact with the formulation in the wind tunnel. The deltamethrin- and diflubenzuron-resistant strains were significantly less affected than the susceptible strain by contact with the attracticide on the wooden support, exhibiting 58- and 2.3-fold greater LT50 ratios, respectively. Mortality of deltamethrin-resistant moths did not exceed 40% after 48 h. The LT50 value was significantly greater on filter paper support than on the two other supports. Surprisingly, the LT50 ratio of the deltamethrin-resistant strain was markedly higher on filter paper support (1021-fold), which was more absorbent, than on the glass support (31-fold). No sublethal effects in terms of pheromone response, mating or fecundity occurred in moths surviving contact with the attracticide. Choice of insecticides in attracticide formulations will be influenced by the resistance background of the target pests. Principles of insecticide resistance management may also be applied to attract-and-kill technology by alternating with other insecticides or control methods.	1	pesticide
11525502	Continuous surveillance of organochlorine compounds in human breast milk from 1972 to 1998 in Osaka, Japan.	The presence of chlorinated organic compounds in breast milk of lactating women living in Osaka Prefecture, Japan, has been followed since 1972. Following the highest concentration found at the start of the measurements, contamination by polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and organochlorine pesticides, such as beta-HCH and DDT declined to about 3-13% of the peak levels by the mid-1970s and continued to decrease to low-level equilibrium states. This decline varies greatly with the chemical compound. In comparison with 1970s, when the contamination of breast milk was highest, the beta-HCH level fell to about 3%, DDT to about 7%, and PCBs to about 13%, representative of different half-lives in the environment and the particular persistence of PCB. In the case of chlordane, a termite insecticide, more than 10 years have passed since its use was prohibited in Japan, but it continues to be found in human breast milk, although at a low level.	1	pesticide
11561838	Potential for areawide integrated management of Mediterranean fruit fly (Diptera: Tephritidae) with a braconid parasitoid and a novel bait spray.	The braconid wasp, Fopius arisanus (Sonan), a biological control agent for Mediterranean fruit fly, Ceratitis capitata (Wiedemann), was studied in coffee, Coffea arabica L. Fopius arisanus, comprised 79.3% of the total parasitoids (7,014) recovered from fruits collected at three small coffee farms. Data from seasonal host/parasitoid studies at a large coffee plantation also suggested that the most effective natural enemy of C. capitata in coffee may now reside in Hawaii. The original parasitoids introduced into Hawaii for C. capitata control (Diachasmimorpha tryoni (Cameron), Tetrastichus giffardianus Silvestri, and Dirhinus giffardii Silvestri) are now rare. Abundance of F. arisanus with respect to other parasitoids collected was influenced by elevation (274, 457, 610 m). Fopius arisanus was the dominant parasitoid at all three elevations, Diachasmimorpha longicaudata (Ashmead) occurred consistently, and T. giffardianus was abundant only at low elevation. The impacts on C. capitata and F. arisanus populations of bait sprays containing malathion, spinosad, or phloxine B applied to coffee were also evaluated. All three bait sprays suppressed C. capitata populations. Spinosad and phloxine B bait sprays appeared less harmful to the wasp than malathion. Fopius arisanus offers the potential for areawide management of C. capitata that includes biological control and integration with more environmentally safe chemical controls such as spinosad and phloxine B bait sprays.	1	pesticide
11561850	Evaluation of various deployment strategies of imidacloprid-treated spheres in highbush blueberries for control of Rhagoletis mendax (Diptera: Tephritidae).	Biodegradable, ammonium-baited spheres treated with the neonicotinoid insecticide Provado (imidacloprid) at 2% (AI) were evaluated for controlling blueberry maggot flies, Rhagoletis mendax Curran. Three strategies for sphere deployment in highbush blueberries, Vaccinium corymbosum L., were compared with untreated control plots in 1999 and once again compared against control plots and organophosphate insecticide sprays in 2000. The patterns of sphere deployment were as follows: (1) perimeter deployment in which spheres were hung individually and spaced equally around the perimeter of experimental plots; (2) cluster deployment in which four groups of three spheres were hung in equally spaced perimeter locations of experimental plots; and (3) uniform deployment in which spheres were placed 10 m apart (in a grid-like pattern) within experimental plots. In 1999, there were no significant differences in fruit injury levels based on observed R. mendax oviposition scars and reared larvae among plots containing imidacloprid-treated spheres in perimeter, cluster, and internal-grid patterns. However, all plots containing spheres had significantly lower fruit infestation levels (<2%), compared with unsprayed control plots with no spheres deployed, which had infestation levels (>20%). In 2000, there were no significant differences in fruit injury based on observed R. mendax oviposition scars between plots containing imidacloprid-treated spheres in the three deployment strategies tested and plots that received Guthion (Azinphosmethyl) spray applications. However, significantly fewer R. mendax larvae were reared from berries collected from plots that received two applications of Guthion compared with plots in which imidacloprid-treated spheres were deployed. Irrespective of sphere deployment strategies, all sphere-treated and sprayed plots had significantly lower injury levels (<1.5%), based on numbers of reared larvae compared with berries collected from the control plots (>4.0%). Based on captures of flies on unbaited Pherocon AM boards placed in the center of treatment plots, we observed a suppression of R. mendax in plots containing imidacloprid-treated spheres compared with control plots. The potential of using imidacloprid-treated spheres as a behavioral control integrated pest management tactic for blueberry maggot flies is discussed.	1	pesticide
11590732	Distribution of atrazine in a crop-soil-groundwater system at Baiyangdian Lake area in China.	In this paper, the concentration distribution and environmental fate of atrazine in a crop-soil-groundwater system at Baiyangdian Lake area of North China were studied. The concentration of the herbicide in spatial and vertical soils, and in roots, stem, leaf, corncob and kernel of corn, and in groundwater were measured by HPLC. The results showed that the variation of spatial concentration of atrazine in soil can be described by first-order kinetics equation which has a half-life of 360 days and a rate constant of 0.0019 d-1. The vertical variation of atrazine concentration with soil depth follows the exponential decay law. After 120 days following atrazine application, the mass distributions of this herbicide in crop-soil-groundwater system are 71% in soil, 20% in groundwater and 1% in crop respectively, and 8% due to loss by degradation or often removal processes. The order of atrazine concentration in every part of corn crop is in roots > in corncob > in kernel of corn > in leaf.	1	pesticide
11599993	Analysis of pesticide residues in eggs by direct sample introduction/gas chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry.	"Direct sample introduction (DSI) or ""dirty sample injection"" is a rapid, rugged, and inexpensive approach to large volume injection in gas chromatography (GC) for semivolatile analytes such as pesticides. DSI of complex samples such as eggs requires a very selective detection technique, such as tandem mass spectrometry (MS-MS), to determine the analytes among the many semivolatile matrix components that also appear. In DSI, the nonvolatile matrix components that normally would contaminate the GC system in traditional injection methods remain in a disposable microvial, which is removed after every injection. For example, 3 microg of nonvolatile residue typically remained in the microvial after an injection of egg extract using the DSI method. This analytical procedure involves the following: (i) weighing 10 g of egg in a centrifuge tube and adding 2 g of NaCl and 19.3 mL of acetonitrile (MeCN); (ii) blending for 1 min using a probe blender; (iii) centrifuging for 10 min; and (iv) analyzing 10 microL (5 mg of egg equivalent) of the extract using DSI/GC/MS-MS. No sample cleanup or solvent evaporation steps were required to achieve quantitative and confirmatory results with <10 ng/g detection limits for 25 of 43 tested pesticides from several chemical classes. The remaining pesticides gave higher detection limits due to poor fragmentation characteristics in electron impact ionization and/or degradation. Analysis of eggs incurred with chlorpyrifos-methyl showed a similar trend in the results as a more traditional approach."	1	pesticide
11601461	Multiresidue determination of pesticides in drinking and related waters by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry after solid-phase extraction: interlaboratory study.	As part of a project funded by the European Commission (EC) for the development and evaluation of multiresidue methods for analysis of drinking and related waters, 15 European laboratories evaluated a method using styrene-divinylbenzene co-polymer solid-phase extraction followed by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. The main aim of the study was to evaluate whether the method meets the requirements of EC Directive 98/83 in terms of accuracy, precision, and detection limit for 22 pesticides according to the following requirements: limit of detection, < or = 0.025 microg/L; accuracy, expressed as recovery between 75 and 125%; and precision, expressed as repeatability relative standard deviation of the method of < 12.5% and as reproducibility relative standard deviation of the method of < 25%. Analyses for unknown concentrations were performed with fortified commercial bottled and tap waters. All laboratories were able to achieve detection limits of 0.01 microg/L for all pesticides except dimethoate and desisopropylatrazine (0.02 microg/L). The criteria for repeatability were met for all compounds except trifluralin, dimethoate, and lindane in bottled water and chlorpyrifos, dimethoate, and lindane in tap water. The criteria for reproducibility were met for all compounds except trifluralin, dimethoate, and lindane in bottled water and pendimethalin, chlorpyrifos, dimethoate, terbutryn, and lindane in tap water. In terms of accuracy, the method meets the requirements for all pesticides in both matrixes, except for lindane in bottled water and lindane and chlorpyrifos in tap water.	1	pesticide
11681688	Transfer of ingested insecticides among cockroaches: effects of active ingredient, bait formulation, and assay procedures.	Foraging cockroaches ingest insecticide baits, translocate them, and can cause mortality in untreated cockroaches that contact the foragers or ingest their excretions. Translocation of eight ingested baits by adult male Blattella germanica (L.) was examined in relation to the type of the active ingredient, formulation, and foraging area. Ingested boric acid, chlorpyrifos, fipronil, and hydramethylnon that were excreted by adults in small dishes killed 100% of first instars within 10 d and >50% of second instars within 14 d. Residues from these ingested baits were also highly effective on nymphs in larger arenas and killed 16-100% of the adults. However, when the baits and dead cockroaches were removed from the large arenas and replaced with new cockroaches, only residues of the slow-acting hydramethylnon killed most of the nymphs and adults, whereas residues of fast acting insecticides (chlorpyrifos and fipronil) killed fewer nymphs and adults. Excretions from cockroaches that ingested abamectin baits failed to cause significant mortality in cockroaches that contacted the residues. These results suggest that hydramethylnon is highly effective in these assays because cockroaches that feed on the bait have ample time to return to their shelter and defecate insecticide-laden feces. The relatively high concentration of hydramethylnon in the bait (2.15%) and its apparent stability in the digestive tract and feces probably contribute to the efficacy of hydramethylnon. To control for differences among baits in inert ingredients and the amount of active ingredient, we compared 1% chlorpyrifos with 1% hydramethylnon in identical baits. Again, hydramethylnon residues provided greater secondary kill, but the results highlighted the importance of the inert ingredients. We conclude that, in the absence of cannibalism and necrophagy, translocation of baits and secondary kill are most effective with slow acting insecticides in palatable baits that can traverse the digestive tract and be deposited within and around the cockroach aggregation.	1	pesticide
11686980	Interventions for treating headlice.	BACKGROUND: Infection with head lice is a widespread condition in developed and developing countries. Infection occurs most commonly in children, but also affects adults. If left untreated the condition can become intensely irritating and skin infections may occur if the bites are scratched. OBJECTIVES: The aim of this review was to assess the effects of interventions for head lice. SEARCH STRATEGY: Trials register of The Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group; Medline; Embase; Science Citation Index; Biosis and Toxline; reference lists of relevant articles; pharmaceutical companies producing pediculicides (published and unpublished trials); UK and US Regulatory Authorities. SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised trials (published and unpublished) or trials using alternate allocation were sought which compared pediculicides with the same and different formulations of other pediculicides, and pediculicides with physical methods. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Of the 71 identified studies, only four met the inclusion criteria. Two reviewers independently assessed trial quality. One reviewer extracted the data. MAIN RESULTS: We found no evidence that any one pediculicide has greater effect than another. The two studies comparing malathion and permethrin with their respective vehicles showed a higher cure rate for the active ingredient than the vehicle. Another study comparing synergised pyrethrins with permethrin showed their effects to be equivalent. A comparative trial of malathion lotion vs combing, showed combing to be ineffective for the cureative treatment of head lice infection. Adverse effects were reported in a number of trials and were all minor, although reporting quality varied between trials. REVIEWER'S CONCLUSIONS: Permethrin, synergised pyrethrin and malathion were effective in the treatment of head lice. However, the emergence of drug resistance since these trials were conducted means there is no direct contemporary evidence of the comparative effectiveness of these products. The 'best' choice will now depend on local resistance patterns. Physical treatment methods(BugBusting) were shown ot be ineffective to treat head lice. No evidence exists regarding other chemical control methods such as the use of herbal treatments, when used in the curative treatment of head lice. Future trials should take into account the methodological recommendations that arise from this review.	1	pesticide
11700263	Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and specific pesticide exposures in men: cross-Canada study of pesticides and health.	Our objective in the study was to investigate the putative associations of specific pesticides with non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma [NHL; International Classification of Diseases, version 9 (ICD-9) 200, 202]. We conducted a Canadian multicenter population-based incident, case (n = 517)-control (n = 1506) study among men in a diversity of occupations using an initial postal questionnaire followed by a telephone interview for those reporting pesticide exposure of 10 h/year or more, and a 15% random sample of the remainder. Adjusted odds ratios (ORs) were computed using conditional logistic regression stratified by the matching variables of age and province of residence, and subsequently adjusted for statistically significant medical variables (history of measles, mumps, cancer, allergy desensitization treatment, and a positive history of cancer in first-degree relatives). We found that among major chemical classes of herbicides, the risk of NHL was statistically significantly increased by exposure to phenoxyherbicides [OR, 1.38; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.06-1.81] and to dicamba (OR, 1.88; 95% CI, 1.32-2.68). Exposure to carbamate (OR, 1.92; 95% CI, 1.22-3.04) and to organophosphorus insecticides (OR, 1.73; 95% CI, 1.27-2.36), amide fungicides, and the fumigant carbon tetrachloride (OR, 2.42; 95% CI, 1.19-5.14) statistically significantly increased risk. Among individual compounds, in multivariate analyses, the risk of NHL was statistically significantly increased by exposure to the herbicides 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D; OR, 1.32; 95% CI, 1.01-1.73), mecoprop (OR, 2.33; 95% CI, 1.58-3.44), and dicamba (OR, 1.68; 95% CI, 1.00-2.81); to the insecticides malathion (OR, 1.83; 95% CI, 1.31-2.55), 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis (4-chlorophenyl) ethane (DDT), carbaryl (OR, 2.11; 95% CI, 1.21-3.69), aldrin, and lindane; and to the fungicides captan and sulfur compounds. In additional multivariate models, which included exposure to other major chemical classes or individual pesticides, personal antecedent cancer, a history of cancer among first-degree relatives, and exposure to mixtures containing dicamba (OR, 1.96; 95% CI, 1.40-2.75) or to mecoprop (OR, 2.22; 95% CI, 1.49-3.29) and to aldrin (OR, 3.42; 95% CI, 1.18-9.95) were significant independent predictors of an increased risk for NHL, whereas a personal history of measles and of allergy desensitization treatments lowered the risk. We concluded that NHL was associated with specific pesticides after adjustment for other independent predictors.	1	pesticide
11725491	Combining supercritical fluid extraction of soil herbicides with enzyme immunoassay analysis.	Supercritical fluid extraction (SFE) of soil herbicides followed by enzyme immunoassay analysis (EIA) is explained in a step-by-step process. Extracted herbicides, include 2,4-D, simazine, atrazine, and alachlor. The herbicide, trifluralin was not successfully analyzed by EIA because of crossreacting metabolites. Problems with SFE, including uneven packing of cells, leaks, uneven flow and clogging, can largely be eliminated as the method parameters are optimized. It was necessary to add modifiers including methanol or acetone to the SF CO2 to increase the solubility of the analytes. Detection limits of 2.5 ng/g soil for atrazine and alachlor and 15 ng/g soil for simazine and 2,4-D without concentration of the sample were achieved. Recoveries above 80% and relative standard deviations (RSDs) less than 15% for 2,4-D simazine, atrazine and alachlor were achieved. Atrazine and alachlor recoveries were above 90% with RSDs below 10%. Forty soil samples could be extracted and analyzed in an 8-h day.	1	pesticide
11759697	Atrazine degradation by bioaugmented sediment from constructed wetlands.	The potential to establish pesticide biodegradation in constructed wetland sediment was investigated. Under microcosm conditions, bioaugmentation of sediment with small quantities of an atrazine spill-site soil (1:100 w/w) resulted in the mineralization of 25-30% of 14C ethyl atrazine (1-10 microg g(-1) sediment) as 14CO2 under both unsaturated and water-saturated conditions; atrazine and its common metabolites were almost undetectable after 30 days incubation. By comparison, unbioaugmented sediment supplemented with organic amendments (cellulose or cattail leaves) mineralized only 2-3% of 14C ethyl atrazine, and extractable atrazine and its common metabolites comprised approximately 70% of the original application. The population density of atrazine-degrading microorganisms in unbioaugmented sediment was increased from approximately 10(2)/g to 10(4)/g by bioaugmentation (1:100 w/w), and increased by another 60-fold (6.0x10(5) g(-1)) after incubation with 10 microg g(-1) of atrazine. A high population of atrazine degraders (approximately 10(6) g(-1)) and enhanced rates of atrazine mineralization also developed in bioaugmented sediment after incubation in flooded mesocosms planted with cattails (Typha latifolia) and supplemented with atrazine (3.2 mg l(-1), 1 microg g(-1) sediment). In the absence of atrazine, neither the population of atrazine degraders, nor the atrazine mineralizing potential of bioaugmented sediment increased, regardless of the presence or absence of cattails. Bioaugmentation might be a simple method to promote pesticide degradation in nursery run-off channeled through constructed wetlands, if persistence of degraders in the absence of pesticide is not a serious constraint.	1	pesticide
11767144	Liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization/isotopic dilution mass spectrometry analysis of n-(phosphonomethyl) glycine and mass spectrometry analysis of aminomethyl phosphonic acid in environmental water and vegetation matrixes.	A liquid chromatography/electrospray/mass spectrometry (LC/ES/MS) method was developed for the analysis of glyphosate (n-phosphonomethyl glycine) and its metabolite, aminomethyl phosphonic acid (AMPA) using isotope-labelled glyphosate as a method surrogate. Optimized parameters were achieved to derivatize glyphosate and AMPA using 9-fluorenylmethyl chloroformate (FMOC-Cl) in borate buffer prior to a reversed-phase LC analysis. Method spike recovery data obtained using laboratory and real world sample matrixes indicated an excellent correlation between the recovery of the native and isotope-labelled glyphosate. Hence, the first performance-based, isotope dilution MS method with superior precision, accuracy, and data quality was developed for the analysis of glyphosate. There was, however, no observable correlation between the isotope-labelled glyphosate and AMPA. Thus, the use of this procedure for the accurate analysis of AMPA was not supported. Method detection limits established using standard U.S. Environmental Protection Agency protocol were 0.06 and 0.30 microg/L, respectively, for glyphosate and AMPA in water matrixes and 0.11 and 0.53 microg/g, respectively, in vegetation matrixes. Problems, solutions, and the method performance data related to the analysis of chlorine-treated drinking water samples are discussed. Applying this method to other environmental matrixes, e.g., soil, with minimum modifications is possible, assuring accurate, multimedia studies of glyphosate concentration in the environment and the delivery of useful multimedia information for regulatory applications.	1	pesticide
11770891	Risk assessment under FQPA: case study with chlorpyrifos.	Key science policies have had significant impact on the evolving implementation of the Food Quality and Protection Act (FQPA) (PL 104-170, 1996) by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The impact offour of these policies will be examined using the risk assessment for chlorpyrifos as a case study. These policies are selection of a regulatory endpoint, use of animal data without consideration of human data for setting the reference dose, a 10 FQPA safety factor and use of the 99.9 percentile of modeled consumer exposure in the acute dietary assessment. Each of these policy decisions had individual impact that was then compounded as cumulative impact on the revised risk assessment for chlorpyrifos conducted by the US EPA in 2000 [Federal Register Notice 65(159) (2000) 49982]. But embedded within each science policy, there are assumptions which may be too conservative and which together have resulted in a very large multiplicative reduction in the allowable exposure limits for chlorpyrifos in the US. These new exposure limits are quite different from other regulatory standards around the world. There is third party opposition to many of these policies and many believe the understanding of the relationship between exposure and what is known about human and animal responses to chlorpyrifos has been clouded. These changes in policy insert a new level of conservatism into the scientific statement of risk and create confusion that threatens to weaken the credibility of the regulatory process.	1	pesticide
11802603	Effect of pyrethroids on carbohydrate metabolic pathways in common carp, Cyprinus carpio.	The activity levels of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) were assessed in various tissues of Cyprinus carpio var communis which had been exposed to lethal concentrations of group-II pyrethroids (deltamethrin, cypermethrin, fenvalerate and fluvalinate) for a period of 72 h. The results indicated a steady decrease in SDH activity with a concomitant increase in G6PD activity. The decreased SDH activity indicated inhibition of SDH at mitochondrial level and the increased G6PD activity an enhancement of an alternative pathway of carbohydrate metabolism, viz the hexose monophosphate shunt (HMP) or pentose phosphate pathway as a biochemical adaptation to overcome the toxic stress.	1	pesticide
11814330	In vitro effects of organophosphorus anticholinesterases on muscarinic receptor-mediated inhibition of acetylcholine release in rat striatum.	The aim of the present study was to evaluate the in vitro modulation of muscarinic autoreceptor function by the organophosphorus (OP) anticholinesterases chlorpyrifos oxon, paraoxon, and methyl paraoxon. Acetylcholine (ACh) release was studied by preloading slices from rat striatum with [3H]choline and depolarizing with potassium (20 mM) in perfusion buffer containing hemicholinium-3 (to prevent reuptake of radiolabeled choline). Under these conditions, chlorpyrifos oxon, paraoxon, and methyl paraoxon (0.1-10 microM) all reduced ACh release in a concentration-dependent manner. Addition of the carbamate acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor physostigmine (20 microM) to the perfusion buffer also decreased ACh release. When physostigmine was present, the three oxons had no additional effect on ACh release. Concentration-dependent inhibition of AChE activity in striatal slices perfused with chlorpyrifos oxon (0.1, 1, and 10 microM) suggested AChE inhibition was responsible for oxon-mediated alterations in ACh release. To differentiate between direct and indirect actions of the OP toxicants on muscarinic autoreceptors, we compared the effects of the oxons on ACh release under two conditions, i.e., tissues were perfused with buffer containing only hemicholinium-3 or with buffer containing hemicholinium-3, physostigmine, and the nonselective muscarinic receptor blocker atropine (100 nM). In the presence of only hemicholinium-3, concentration-dependent inhibition of ACh release was again noted for all oxons, similar to the effects of the muscarinic agonists carbachol and cis-dioxolane. In the presence of physostigmine and atropine, the relative potencies of all agents were markedly reduced. Interestingly, carbachol, cis-dioxolane, paraoxon, and methyl paraoxon all decreased ACh release as before, but chlorpyrifos oxon (100-300 microM) actually increased ACh release. Together, the results suggest that chlorpyrifos oxon, paraoxon, and methyl paraoxon can activate muscarinic autoreceptors indirectly through inhibition of AChE. Both paraoxon and methyl paraoxon also directly activate whereas chlorpyrifos oxon blocks muscarinic autoreceptor function. Qualitative differences in the direct actions of these oxons at this presynaptic regulatory site could contribute to differential toxicity with high-dose exposures.	1	pesticide
11841371	Widespread insecticide resistance in head lice to the over-the-counter pediculocides in England, and the emergence of carbaryl resistance.	BACKGROUND: Increasing resistance to insecticides used for the control of head lice infestation has been documented over the last decade. Treatment failure and tolerance to insecticides have been validated in a number of studies undertaken in several U.K. centres. OBJECTIVES: To establish the extent of insecticide resistance in head lice and acetylcholinesterase activity in the presence of carbaryl in head lice. METHODS: Head lice were collected from school children in four centres across England (Exmouth, Loughborough, Leeds and South Shields), and tested in their response to the insecticides permethrin, phenothrin, malathion and carbaryl. Data were compared with information collected in Bristol and Bath in 1998 and with susceptible body lice. The activity of louse acetylcholinesterase was measured with and without carbaryl in head lice collected in Bristol, Leeds, Loughborough and in body lice. The efficacy of a 1% carbaryl lotion was compared in children in Bristol and Leeds. RESULTS: Compared with body lice, head lice from all six centres were significantly different in their response (P < 0.0001) to permethrin, phenothrin and malathion after 2-h exposure tests. There were significant differences in louse acetylcholinesterase activity in body lice, and head lice collected in Loughborough and Bristol in the presence or absence of carbaryl (P < 0.001), indicating enzyme inhibition. However, the difference for lice from Leeds was not significant (P = 0.363) suggesting that the enzyme was resistant to carbaryl. Eighty-nine per cent of children treated in Leeds with carbaryl were cured compared with 100% in Bristol. CONCLUSIONS: The data suggest head lice resistance is present in many parts of England to over-the-counter products containing synthetic insecticides (permethrin, phenothrin and malathion). They further suggest that resistance is starting to develop to carbaryl in head lice in Leeds and that extensive use of this product would lead to significant resistance.	1	pesticide
11843435	Contact dermatitis caused by pesticides among banana plantation workers in Panama.	To characterize dermatitis related to pesticide exposures among banana plantation workers in Panama, the authors studied 281 workers seen at The Occupational Health Department of the Social Security Hospital of Changuinola and Puerto Armuelles between 1988-1992 and in 1993. Exposure data were collected through a standardized occupational health history. Physical examination, a standard patch test, and a pesticide patch test (PPT) were carried out. Of the 244 men (86.8%) and 37 women (13.2%), 17 and 37, respectively, were packing station workers. The other 227 men were field workers, exposed to many pesticides (propiconazole, maneb, chlorothalonil, dithane, dalaphon, ametrine; and gramoxone). The 54 packing station workers were exposed to imazalil, thiabendazole, aluminum hydroxide solutions, and formaldehyde. The hands were the most frequently affected areas (82%), followed by the thorax and abdomen (9%), legs and feet (5%), and genital area (4%). There were 78 positive PPTs (27.8%) in 281 patients. The most frequent reactions were to the fungicides chloro-thalonil (51.4%), thiabendazole (12.8%), imazalil (10.2%), and aluminum hydroxide (10.2%), which accounted for 85% of all positive tests. The majority of the cases were related to exposures to fungicides; 246 with negative PPTs were classified as irritant contact dermatitis patients; 48 controls were negatives. Contact dermatitis related to pesticide exposure is a significant occupational health problem for banana workers in Panama.	1	pesticide
11929294	Subcritical water extraction to evaluate desorption behavior of organic pesticides in soil.	We evaluated the feasibility of extracting organic pesticides in soil using a hot-water percolation apparatus at 105 degrees C and 120 kPa pressure. Efficiency of the method was assessed by extracting six selected pesticides (acetochlor, atrazine, diazinon, carbendazim, imidacloprid, and isoproturon) from previously equilibrated soil at 13.6-65.8 mg/kg concentration range. Studies were performed on brown forest soil with clay alluviation (Luvisol). The method developed was compared to the traditional batch equilibrium method in terms of desorbed amount of pesticides from soil and extraction time. Pesticides in the liquid phase from the batch sorption experiment and in the effluent from the hot-water percolation were quantified by high-performance liquid chromatography with UV detection. The results of the percolation experiment are in close correlation with those of the conventional soil testing method. Desorbed quantities by hot-water percolation were 85% acetochlor, 62% atrazine, 65% carbendazim, 44% diazinon, 95% imidacloprid, and 84% isoproturon, whereas using batch equilibrium method 101, 66, 64, 37, 81, and 90% were desorbed, expressed as the percentage of the adsorbed amount of pesticide on soil following equilibration. The average time for hot-water extraction was 3.45 min, in contrast to the 16 h time consumption of the traditional batch method. The effect of temperature on stability of selected compounds was also evaluated using pesticide-spiked sand without soil. Recoveries of analytes ranged between 84.6 and 91.1% with reproducibility of 7.9-10.2%, except for diazinon, for which recovery was 59.4% with 14.4% relative standard deviation since decomposition occurred at elevated temperature. The percolation process has been described by a first-order kinetic equation. The parameters calculated from the equation provide an opportunity to estimate the amount of compound available for desorption, the rate of desorption processes in the studied soil-pesticide-water system, and modeling the leaching process to obtain additional information on the environmental behavior of the examined pesticide.	1	pesticide
11936576	Carbendazim-induced haematological, biochemical and histopathological changes to the liver and kidney of male rats.	Carbendazim is a systemic broad-spectrum fungicide controlling a wide range of pathogens. It is also used as a preservative in paint, textile, papermaking and leather industry, as well as a preservative of fruits. In the present study, carbendazim was administered at 0, 150, 300 and 600 mg/kg per day doses orally to male rats (Rattus rattus) for 15 weeks. At the end of the experiment, blood samples, liver and kidney tissues of each animal were taken. Serum enzyme activities, and haematological and biochemical parameters were analysed. In toxicological tests, 600 mg/kg per day doses of carbendazim caused an increase of albumin, glucose, creatinine and cholesterol levels. Also, at the same doses, white blood cell and lymphocyte counts decreased. However, mean cell hemoglobin and mean cell hemoglobin concentrations increased. Histopathological examinations revealed congestion, an enlargement of the sinusoids, an increase in the number of Kupffer cells, mononuclear cell infiltration and hydropic degeneration in the liver. At the highest doses, congestion, mononuclear cell infiltration, tubular degeneration and fibrosis were observed in the kidney tissue. These results indicate that 300 and 600 mg/kg per day carbendazim affected the liver and kidney tissue and caused some changes on haematological and biochemical parameters of rats.	1	pesticide
11936688	Human blood and environmental media screening method for pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyl compounds using liquid extraction and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis.	"Screening assessment methods have been developed for semi- and non-volatile persistent organic pollutants (POPs) for human blood and solid environmental media. The specific methodology is developed for measuring the presence of ""native"" compounds, specifically, a variety of organochlorine pesticides (OCPs), organophosphate pesticides (OPPs), and for polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). The method is demonstrated on anonymous Red Cross blood samples as well as two potential environmental sources, tracked in soil and dog hair. This work is based on previously developed methods for semi-volatile hydrocarbon exposure from fuels usage and similarly employs liquid solvent extraction, evaporative volume reduction. and subsequent specialized gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis (GC-MS). Standard curves, estimates of recovery efficiency, and specific GC-MS SIM quantification methods were developed for common pesticides including diazinon. aldrin, chlorpyrifos, malathion, dieldrin, DDT, permethrin, cyhalothrin, and cypermethrin, and for seven selected PCBs. Trace levels of certain PCBs and pesticides such as permethrin, dieldrin, malathion, lindane, diazinon, and chlorpyrifos were tentatively identified in anonymous blood samples as well as in two potential environmental sources. tracked in soil and dog hair. The method provides a simple screening procedure for various media and a variety of common organic pollutants without extensive sample preparation. It is meant to complement and augment data from more specific or complex methodology, to provide initial broad spectrum guidance for designing targeted experiments, and to provide confirmatory evidence for the usual metabolic biomarker measurements made to assess human exposure."	1	pesticide
11952338	Rabbit serum albumin hydrolyzes the carbamate carbaryl.	One of the main detoxification processes of the carbamate insecticides is the hydrolysis of the carbamic ester bond. Carboxylesterases seem to play important roles in the metabolization of carbamates. This study performs a biochemical characterization of the capabilities of rabbit serum albumin (RSA) to hydrolyze the carbamate carbaryl. Rabbit serum albumin was able to hydrolyze carbaryl with a K(cat) of 7.1 x 10(-5) s(-1). The K(m) for this hydrolysis reaction was 240 microM. Human, chicken, and bovine serum albumins were also able to hydrolyze carbaryl. The divalent cation Cu(2+) at 1 mM concentration inhibited around 50% of the hydrolysis of carbaryl by RSA. Other mono- and divalent cations at 1 mM concentration and 5 mM EDTA exerted no significant effects on the hydrolysis of carbaryl by RSA. The inhibition of the carbaryl hydrolysis by sulfydril blocking agents suggests that a cysteine residue plays an important role in the active center of the catalytic activity. Both caprylic and palmitic acids were noncompetitive inhibitors of the carbaryl hydrolysis by RSA. The carboxyl ester p-nitrophenyl butyrate is a substrate of RSA and competitively inhibited the hydrolysis of carbaryl by this protein, suggesting that the hydrolysis of carbaryl and the hydrolysis of carboxyl esters occur in the same catalytic site and through a similar mechanism. This mechanism might be based on the carbamylation of a tyrosine residue of the RSA. Serum albumin is a protein universally present in nontarget species of insecticides; therefore, the capability of this protein to hydrolyze other carbamates must be studied because it might have important toxicological and ecotoxicological implications.	1	pesticide
11976062	Insecticide susceptibility and detoxication enzyme activities among Coptotermes formosanus Shiraki workers sampled from different locations in New Orleans.	Coptotermes formosanus Shiraki worker termites were sampled from 20 locations in the City Park area of New Orleans, LA. The termites were subsequently assayed to determine their susceptibility to cypermethrin, chlordane and chlorpyrifos, and detoxication enzyme activity. Cypermethrin was most toxic against Formosan subterranean termite workers, chlorpyrifos exhibited intermediate toxicity and chlordane was least toxic. A comparison of insecticide susceptibility between the most and least tolerant colonies revealed 1.9-, 1.7- and 1.8-fold differences in susceptibility for cypermethrin, chlorpyrifos and chlordane, respectively. As with the bioassay data, although significant differences were noted, a great deal of overlap was observed among the colonies for total cytochrome P450 content (difference of 2.2-fold between high and low value) aldrin epoxidation (3.6-fold) and cytosolic esterase (3.9-fold) activity. No significant differences were observed among the colonies for methoxyresorufin O-demethylase or glutathione S-transferase activity. Conversely, microsomal esterase activity varied greatly; a 38-fold difference was observed between the most (Cf1776) and least (Cf1387) active colonies. However, no significant correlation was observed between insecticide susceptibility and microsomal esterase activity. In fact, no significant correlations were observed between any of the enzyme activities measured and insecticide susceptibility. These results are discussed in the context of insecticide selection and future control effectiveness.	1	pesticide
11990356	Modelling of atrazine transport in the presence of surfactants.	Laboratory experiments were conducted to examine the effect of detergents on transport of atrazine [2-chloro-4-(ethylamino)-6-(isopropylamino)-s-triazine] through loam and sandy loam soils under saturation conditions. The Convection Dispersion Equation (CDE) was used to model and quantify the effects of detergents on atrazine model parameters: the retardation factor (R), pore velocity (v) and dispersion coefficient (D). The transport parameters were estimated using moment technique and partition coefficient obtained from batch experiments and compared with best-fitted parameters, R and D, keeping pore velocity constant. Results indicated the CDE model was not successful in predicting atrazine transport in the presence of surfactants at high concentrations. In the case of anionic surfactant with Elora loam, the average predicted R and D from moment technique of 3.4 and 11.1 cm2/h, respectively were significantly different than fitted parameters (R = 39 and D = 227 cm2/h). The poor performance of CDE in the presence of surfactants results from physiochemical changes in herbicide solubility and retention to the soil matrix rather than changes in soil hydraulic properties since the predicted pore water velocities from moment technique were similar to those measured during leaching experiments. Nevertheless, BTC analysis with CDE showed that land application of anionic surfactant (sulphonic) significantly increased R and D and decrease v for both soils. Addition of sulphonic increased R of atrazine by 12 and 26 folds for loam and sandy loam soils, respectively. On the other hand non-ionic surfactants seemed to decrease R, especially in sandy loam soil, thus facilitating atrazine leaching through soil. Non-equilibrium conditions seemed to govern atrazine transport in the presence of surfactants; double peaks in breakthrough curves were observed, indicating a need for mathematical models to account for such phenomena. Atrazine dispersion and tailing seemed to be higher through Elora loam compared to Caledon sandy loam due to higher aggregation of the Elora soil.	1	pesticide
12009192	Persistence and runoff losses of 3 herbicides and chlorpyrifos from a corn field in the Lake Balaton watershed of Hungary.	Corn is intensively cultivated in western Hungary in the basin of Lake Balaton, one of the most important water resources in eastern Europe. Pesticide runoff was measured in 1996 and 1997 from a typical corn field near Zalaegerszeg, Hungary, which drains into the Zala River, an important water source of Lake Balaton. Three herbicides, namely atrazine, acetochlor, and propizochlor, and the insecticide chlorpyrifos were applied to bare soil in a field with 5% slope and soil and runoff water pesticide concentrations were monitored. In 1997, a rainfall-runoff simulation experiment was conducted on a small sub-plot in order to measure pesticide runoff under reasonable worst-case conditions. Under natural rainfall almost all losses occurred in a large runoff event in 1996 one month after application in which 3% of atrazine and 1% of acetochlor was transported off the field. Propizochlor and chlorpyrifos losses in the same event were much lower: 0.2% and <0.01%, respectively, because of these chemicals' shorter persistence times in near-surface soil. The rainfall simulation produced only trace amounts of losses even though 4.1 cm was applied in 2 hours; the soil was extremely dry and only 0.2 cm runoff occurred containing less than 0.01% of all chemicals applied. The results suggest that intensive use of corn herbicides, which have been found to result in widespread contamination of water resources elsewhere, may be expected to have the same impact in the Balaton watershed depending on the amounts and intensities used in the basin.	1	pesticide
12012747	Toxicology of newer pesticides for use in dogs and cats.	The past 10 years have witnessed the development of several new insecticides that have been specifically designed to exploit physiologic differences between insects and mammals. This has resulted in products that seem to have a wide margin of safety when used in dogs and cats. Compared with the more acutely toxic organophosphorous, carbamate, and heavy metal insecticides as well as with the environmental problems of bioaccumulation associated with some of the organochlorine insecticides, these newer insecticides such as fipronil, imidacloprid, selamectin, lufenuron, and nitenpyram seem to alleviate these known problems while still providing satisfactory insecticidal activity.	1	pesticide
12020023	Evaluation of peracid activated organophosphates in studies of insecticide resistance conferred by insensitive acetylcholinesterases.	Peracid activated organophosphorus (OP) insecticides were evaluated against electric eel and a range of insect acetylcholinesterases (AChE). Incubation of chlorpyrifos and sulprofos with meta-chloroperoxybenzoic acid (MCPBA) produced active metabolites capable of distinguishing between AChE enzymes conferring OP susceptibility and resistance in populations of the tobacco whitefly, Bemisia tabaci Gennadius, and the beet armyworm, Spodoptera exigua Hubner. These products were also active against enzymes present in the lygus bug Lygus hesperus Knight and the greenhouse whitefly, Trialeurodes vaporariorum Westwood. Although profenofos was active against electric eel AChE, incubation of the OP with MCPBA did not enhance its anti-AChE properties toward the eel or insect AChEs.	1	pesticide
12046284	Adsorption of chloroacetanilide herbicides on soil and its components. III. Influence of clay acidity, humic acid coating and herbicide structure on acetanilide herbicide adsorption on homoionic clays.	Adsorption of chloroacetanilide herbicides on homoionic montmorillonite, soil humic acid, and their mixtures was studied by coupling batch equilibration and FT-IR analysis. Adsorption isotherms of acetochlor, alachlor, metolachlor and propachlor on Ca(2+)-, Mg(2+)-, Al(3+)- and Fe(3+)-saturated clays were well described by the Freundlich equation. Regardless of the type of exchange cations, Kf decreased in the order of metolachlor > acetolachlor > alachlor > propachlor on the same clay. FT-IR spectra showed that the carbonyl group of the herbicide molecule was involved in binding, probably via H-bond with water molecules in the clay interlayer. The type and position of substitutions around the carbonyl group may have affected the electronegativity of oxygen, thus influencing the relative adsorption of these herbicides. For the same herbicide, adsorption on clay increased in the order of Mg2+ < Ca2+ < Al3+ < or = Fe3+ which coincided with the increasing acidity of homoionic clays. Acidity of cations may have affected the protonation of water, and thus the strength of H-bond between the clay water and herbicide. Complexation of clay and humic acid resulted in less adsorption than that expected from independent adsorption by the individual constituents. The effect varied with herbicides, but the greatest decrease in adsorption occurred at a 60:40 clay-to-humic acid ratio for all the herbicides. Causes for the decreased adsorption need to be characterized to better understand adsorption mechanisms and predict adsorption from soil compositions.	1	pesticide
12049839	Cypermethrin-induced plasma membrane perturbation on erythrocytes from rats: reduction of fluidity in the hydrophobic core and in glutathione peroxidase activity.	The effects of treatment with the synthetic insecticide cypermethrin on plasma membrane fluidity, lipid peroxidation and antioxidant status in rat erythrocytes were investigated. Rats were treated by gavage with a low dose (12.5 mg/kg body weight per day) of cypermethrin in corn oil for 60 days. DPH and TMA-DPH fluorescence anisotropy experiments show that cypermethrin treatment, compared with controls, induced a significant decrease in erythrocyte membrane fluidity measured by DPH, while no changes were observed using TMA-DPH. Cypermethrin treatment also induced a significant increase in the lipid peroxidation, measured by the formation of conjugated dienes. The increased oxidative stress resulted in a significant decrease in the activity of glutathione peroxidase. The results are discussed in terms of preferential localization of cypermethrin in the hydrophobic core of the membrane, where it increases lipid packing and consequently decreases membrane fluidity.	1	pesticide
12083354	Comparison of two bioassay techniques for assessing the acute toxicity of pesticides to chironomid larvae (Diptera: Chironomidae).	Two container and substrate combinations were compared to determine which provided optimal survival of larvae of Chironomus tepperi and Glyptotendipes paripes in the absence of toxicants. Unfed final-stage larvae of G. paripes survived significantly (P < 0.05) better in waxed paper cups with sand substrate (92.8% after 3 days) than in glass tubes with a shredded paper substrate (85.3%). Survival of larvae of C. tepperi over the same period did not differ significantly in the 2 systems. Larvae of C. tepperi were bioassayed against 3 insecticides (technical and formulated imidacloprid, chlorpyrifos, and betacypermethrin) with both container and substrate combinations. Median lethal concentration values (24 h) obtained with waxed cups with sand were 1.8 times higher on average than those obtained with glass tubes with shredded paper (range 1.13-2.65 times). To determine the cause of this variability, solid-phase microextraction was used to measure changes in chlorpyrifos availability over time in the 2 bioassay systems. Chlorpyrifos concentrations in the waxed cups and sand system fell from 7.50 to 3.36 microg/liter over 24 h, probably as a consequence of chemical adsorption to the waxed surfaces. Chlorpyrifos concentrations in the glass tubes and paper system remained unchanged over this period. Excluding substrates from the containers had only a minor effect on chlorpyrifos availability. These results demonstrate that the behaviors of both test organisms and toxicants within bioassay systems need to be understood if the data generated with different systems are to be compared. Understanding how toxicant availability is affected by different container and substrate types is particularly important where bioassays are conducted with nominal concentration values rather than analytically determined exposure concentrations.	1	pesticide
12105980	Influence of a riparian wetland on nitrate and herbicides exported from an agricultural field.	Agrochemicals are a major source of nonpoint pollution. Forested corridors along stream channels (riparian zones) are thought to be potential sites for removal of agricultural contaminants from ground and surface waters. First-order riparian wetlands are reputed to be especially effective at groundwater remediation. The study site is a fairly typical (for eastern Maryland) small, first-order stream in an agricultural watershed. Preferential flow supplies most of the stream water within the riparian headwater wetland. This upstream area also contains the highest average stream N and pesticide loads in the entire first-order riparian system. Zones of active groundwater emergence onto the surface display high concentrations of nitrate throughout the soil profile and in the exfiltrating water, whereas inactive areas (where there is no visible upwelling) show rapid attenuation of nitrate with decreasing depths. Atrazine degradation products appear to penetrate more readily through the most active upwelling zones, and there is a correlation between zones of high nitrate and high atrazine metabolite levels. Deethylatrazine/atrazine ratios (DAR) seem to indicate that stream flow is dominated by ground water and that much of the ground water may have reached the stream via preferential flow. Remediative processes appear to be very complex, heterogeneous, and variable in these systems, so additional research is needed before effective formulation and application of riparian zone initiatives and guidelines can be accomplished.	1	pesticide
12146167	Structural effects of dinotefuran and analogues in insecticidal and neural activities.	The insecticidal potencies of dinotefuran and analogues against the adult male American cockroach, Periplaneta americana (L) were measured by injection with or without metabolic inhibitors. The potency of dinotefuran was close to those of clothianidin and imidacloprid under the conditions used. The nerve-excitatory and nerve-blocking activities were measured with central nerve cords of P americana. The nerve-excitatory activity of dinotefuran was lower than that of imidacloprid, but was comparable with that of clothianidin. The nerve-blocking activity of dinotefuran was comparable with that of imidacloprid and slightly higher than that of clothianidin. Quantitative analyses showed that variations in the insecticidal activity were better correlated with variations in the nerve-blocking activity than with those in the nerve-excitatory activity when the contribution of the hydrophobic factor was allowed for.	1	pesticide
12147084	Antagonistic interactions amongst bacteriocin-producing enteric bacteria in dual species biofilms.	AIMS: The objective of this study was to investigate the antagonistic interactions between bacteriocin-producing enteric bacteria in dual species biofilms and the interspecies interactions correlated with sensitivity to biocides. METHODS AND RESULTS: When compared with their single species counterparts, the dual species biofilms formed by bacteriocin-producing strains exhibited a decrease in biofilm size and an increase in sensitivity to the antimicrobial agents hypochlorite, triclosan and benzalkonium chloride. The five dual species biofilms studied all resulted in biofilms containing a mixture of the two strains. This was attributed to the spatial distribution of cells within the biofilm, with each strain forming its own microcolonies. The production of a bacteriocin also gave a strain a competitive advantage when interacting with a bacteriocin-sensitive strain within a biofilm, both in gaining a foothold in a new environment and in preventing the colonization of a potential competitor into a pre-established biofilm. CONCLUSIONS: It was concluded that bacteriocins might be used specifically for interacting with competing strains within a biofilm, as opposed to a planktonic, environment. SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: Unlike planktonically grown bacteriocin-producing populations, where one strain will always be out-competed, bacteriocin-producing and bacteriocin-sensitive strains can coexist in biofilm communities, clearly demonstrating major differences between biofilm and planktonic competition. This paper highlights the importance of bacteriocin production in the development of biofilm communities.	1	pesticide
12175040	Anionic polyacrylamide effects on soil sorption and desorption of metolachlor, atrazine, 2,4-D, and picloram.	Polyacrylamide (PAM) treatment of irrigation water is a growing conservation technology in irrigated agriculture in recent years. There is a concern regarding the environmental impact of PAM after its application. The effects of anionic PAM on the sorption characteristics of four widely used herbicides (metolachlor, atrazine, 2,4-D, and picloram) on two natural soils were assessed in batch equilibrium experiments. Results showed that PAM treatment kinetically reduced the sorption rate of all herbicides, possibly due to the slower diffusion of herbicide molecules into interior sorption sites of soil particles that were covered and/or cemented together by PAM. The equilibrium sorption and desorption amounts of nonionic herbicides (metolachlor and atrazine) were essentially unaffected by anionic PAM, even under a high PAM application rate, while the sorption amounts of anionic herbicides (2,4-D and picloram) were slightly decreased and their desorption amounts increased little. The impact mechanisms of PAM were related to the molecular characteristics of PAM and herbicides. The negative effects of PAM on the sorption of anionic herbicides are possibly caused by the enhancement of electrostatic repulsion by presorbed anionic PAM and competition for sorption sites. However, steric hindrance of the large PAM molecule weakens its influence on herbicide sorption on interior sorption sites of soil particles, which probably leads to the small interference on herbicide sorption, even under high application rates.	1	pesticide
12175521	Carcinogenic and cocarcinogenic potential of cypermethrin on mouse skin.	Cypermethrin (CYM), a synthetic pyrethroid insecticide, is used widely because of its high bio-efficacy and low mammalian toxicity. In the present set of investigations, CYM has been evaluated for it's carcinogenic and co-carcinogenic (tumour initiating and tumour promoting) potential in mouse skin model of carcinogenesis. The results revealed that CYM possess complete carcinogenic as well as tumour initiating and promoting potential in both the sexes of Swiss albino mice. At the end point, i.e. 32 weeks in a single dose (10 mg/kg body weight (wt.), once only), initiated mice, 9 out of 12 surviving males, and 10 out of 14 surviving females developed benign tumours, while a higher incidence of tumourigenesis was recorded in multiple dose-initiated (10 mg/kg body wt., total nine applications) group, where 7 out of 9 surviving male and 10 out of 13 surviving female mice developed tumours at the site of topical exposure. The application of CYM as a tumour promoter on 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene initiated animals induced tumour incidence in about 4 out of surviving 10 male and 5 out of surviving 13 female Swiss albino mice. CYM when tested for complete carcinogenic activity induced tumour formation in both male and female animals at all the three tested dose levels.	1	pesticide
12187961	Application of solid-phase microextraction in the monitoring of priority pesticides in the Kalamas River (N.W. Greece).	A solid-phase microextraction (SPME) method was applied to an extended monitoring survey of priority pesticides for the European Union for a period of 12 months in water of the Kalamas River (Epirus region of northwestern Greece) in order to determine their concentrations and seasonal variations. Polydimethylsiloxane-coated fiber (100 microm) was used. The samples were screened using gas chromatography with flame thermionic detection. Detection was confirmed by gas chromatographymass spectroscopy. The most frequently detected pesticides were some of the more commonly used herbicides, such as S-ethyl-N,N-di-n-propylthiol carbamate (EPTC), trifluralin, atrazine, deethylatrazine, terbuthylazine and alachlor, and insecticides, such as carbofuran, diazinon, disulfoton, parathion methyl, parathion ethyl, fenthion and ethion. Concentrations of individual compounds ranged from 0.020 to 0.3 microg/L. Greater pesticide concentrations occurred during the seasons of application. A comparison with a well-established solid-phase extraction (C18 disks) procedure was performed for samples of high-season application (May-September) in order to confirm the effectiveness of the SPME technique. The results demonstrate the suitability of the SPME method for routine screening multiresidue analysis in natural waters.	1	pesticide
12187962	Comparison of solid-phase extraction and solid-phase microextraction for carbofuran in water analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography-photodiode-array detection.	In this study a direct solid-phase microextraction (SPME) procedure has been developed for the determination of carbofuran in water. Experimental parameters such as selection of SPME coating, effect of temperature, effect of salt addition and solvent desorption were studied and optimized. Analytical parameters such as linearity, precision, detection and quantitation limits, and matrix effects for solid-phase extraction (SPE) and SPME methods were evaluated for comparison purposes with the aim of selecting the most appropriate depending on the detection capabilities required. SPE and SPME were followed by high-performance liquid chromatography with diode-array detection, using a 50 x 4.6 mm I.D. guard column and a 150 x 4.6 mm I.D. analytical column, both packed with C18 silica. Both methods can be applied to real samples and give the same results, but SPE allows the detection of lower carbofuran concentrations (0.06 microg/L) as compared to	1	pesticide
12191866	Biological monitoring of exposure to organophosphate pesticides.	Organophosphates (OPs) are readily absorbed through the skin and biological monitoring is an essential component of any comprehensive assessment of exposure. This paper presents a summary of our experience in a wide range of occupational studies. Additionally, we have conducted studies of non-occupational exposure and human volunteer studies looking at the kinetics of chlorpyrifos, propetamphos, diazinon and malathion. In non-occupationally exposed people, 95% of urinary alkyl phosphates do not exceed 72 micromol/mol creatinine. In occupationally exposed people, the corresponding 95th percentile of total urinary alkyl phosphates is 122 micromol/mol creatinine. In volunteer studies with 1 mg oral doses of chlorpyifos, diazinon and propetamphos the mean peak values were 160, 750 and 404 micromol/mol creatinine, respectively, and were not associated with any reduction in blood cholinesterase activity. The levels of OP metabolites seen in urine from workers potentially exposed to OPs are generally low and unlikely to cause significant reduction in blood cholinesterase activity.	1	pesticide
12195990	Occurrence and behaviour of organophosphorus insecticides in the River Wuchuan, southeast China.	Organophosphorus (OP) insecticides are used worldwide, yet their persistence in the environment is not well understood. This paper summarises recent research on 17 OP insecticides in the River Wuchuan, an important catchment in China, by determining their concentrations in water, soil, sediment and plants by gas chromatography with flame photometric detection (GC-FPD). The concentrations of the total OP insecticides ranged from 92.77 to 229 ng l-1 in river water, 1.61 to 9.93 ng g-1 dry weight in soil, 1.24 to 7.56 ng g-1 dry weight in sediment and 75.28 to 326 ng g-1 dry weight in plants. There was a relatively high abundance of methamidophos, dichlorvos, malathion, omethoate and dimethoate in all water, soil, sediment and plant samples. On average, these five compounds collectively accounted for 64%, 71%, 71% and 54% of the total OP insecticide concentration in water, soil, sediment and plants, respectively, which was similar to the composition of OP insecticides in application formulations used in our study area and in China as a whole. The results therefore reflect the application pattern to some extent, and suggest that the sources of the OP insecticides are mainly from current usage. When compared with other areas, the levels of OP insecticides in the River Wuchuan were moderate. The animal and human risks from exposure to OP insecticides in water and plants were evaluated against relevant threshold values. The results therefore provide important information on the current contamination status of a key agricultural watershed in China, and point to the need for urgent action to control the use of some excessively applied and potentially persistent agrochemicals, such as methamidophos, omethoate and dimethoate.	1	pesticide
12200330	Enzymatic degradation of chlorodiamino-s-triazine.	2-Chloro-4,6-diamino-s-triazine (CAAT) is a metabolite of atrazine biodegradation in soils. Atrazine chlorohydrolase (AtzA) catalyzes the dechlorination of atrazine but is unreactive with CAAT. In this study, melamine deaminase (TriA), which is 98% identical to AtzA, catalyzed deamination of CAAT to produce 2-chloro-4-amino-6-hydroxy-s-triazine (CAOT). CAOT underwent dechlorination via hydroxyatrazine ethylaminohydrolase (AtzB) to yield ammelide. This represents a newly discovered dechlorination reaction for AtzB. Ammelide was subsequently hydrolyzed by N-isopropylammelide isopropylaminohydrolase to produce cyanuric acid, a compound metabolized by a variety of soil bacteria.	1	pesticide
12208819	Selective toxicity of neonicotinoids attributable to specificity of insect and mammalian nicotinic receptors.	"Neonicotinoids, the most important new class of synthetic insecticides of the past three decades, are used to control sucking insects both on plants and on companion animals. Imidacloprid (the principal example), nitenpyram, acetamiprid, thiacloprid, thiamethoxam, and others act as agonists at the insect nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR). The botanical insecticide nicotine acts at the same target without the neonicotinoid level of effectiveness or safety. Fundamental differences between the nAChRs of insects and mammals confer remarkable selectivity for the neonicotinoids. Whereas ionized nicotine binds at an anionic subsite in the mammalian nAChR, the negatively tipped (""magic"" nitro or cyano) neonicotinoids interact with a proposed unique subsite consisting of cationic amino acid residue(s) in the insect nAChR. Knowledge reviewed here of the functional architecture and molecular aspects of the insect and mammalian nAChRs and their neonicotinoid-binding site lays the foundation for continued development and use of this new class of safe and effective insecticides."	1	pesticide
12214918	Seasonal distribution of fleas infesting rodents in various Egyptian eco-geographical areas and their susceptibility to malathion.	The rodent population and their ectoparasites especially fleas, in various Egyptian eco-geographical areas were studied It was noticed that flea infestation varied according to rodent species and to the bioclimatic conditions. High flea indices were recorded in certain seasons of the year. The flea index was above one during spring in the southern of Nile Delta and semi-arid coastal areas, in summer in northern coastal areas and in autumn in southern of Nile Delta. Susceptibility tests were conducted using the WHO diagnostic dose of malathion (5%) on three populations of fleas collected from Qualyobia, Suez and Beni-Suef Governorates. The results indicated that malathion (5%) was very effective on fleas collected from Beni-Suef and Suez, but there was an evidence of increased tolerance among flea population collected from Qualyobia Governorate.	1	pesticide
12216397	[Time-specific infection rate of Beauveria bassiana on Myzus persicae after topical inoculation of conidial suspension].	Conidial suspension(5 x 10(6) conidia.ml-1) of the entomopathogenic fungus, Beauveria bassiana BBSG8702 was used to inoculate newly emerged apterous adults of the green peach aphid (Myzus persicae) on detached cabbage leaves in order to measure time-specific infection rate of the fungal agent. The aphids of conidia attached were disinfected using 0.2% chlorothalonil solution at intervals of 8-56 h after inoculation and then maintained at 10 and 20 degrees C for daily observation. There was a significant difference (P < 0.05) in mortality attributed to the fungal infection among the time intervals within 56 h at 10 degrees C after inoculation or within 40 h at 20 degrees C. Compared with the control (not treated with 0.2% chlorothalonil after inoculation), time-specific infection rate at 10 degrees C was estimated as 22.9%, 48.8%, 64.9%, 80.4%, 72.7%, and 98.3% within 8 h, 16 h, 24 h, 32 h, 40 h, and 56 h after inoculation, respectively. The same estimates at 20 degrees C were 31.6%, 48.8%, 58.6%, 86.9%, 97.2%, and 98.7%, respectively. The results indicate that the first 24 h after inoculation was crucial to the infection of B. bassiana to M. persicae. Effective infection with the first 24 h accumulated to 59-65% at 10-20 degrees C.	1	pesticide
12233176	Toxicological and mechanistic studies on neonicotinoid cross resistance in Q-type Bemisia tabaci (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae).	The tobacco whitefly, Bemisia tabaci Gennadius (Homoptera: Aleyrodidae) is a serious pest in numerous cropping systems and has developed a high degree of resistance against several chemical classes of insecticides. One of the latest group of insecticides introduced to the market were the neonicotinoids (chloronicotinyls), acting agonistically on insect nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Resistance to neonicotinoid insecticides has recently been shown to occur, especially in Q-type B tabaci in some places in Almeria, Spain, whereas control of B-type B tabaci in many other intense cropping systems worldwide has remained on high levels. Our study revealed that neonicotinoid-resistant Q-type strains from Almeria were often more than 100-fold less susceptible to thiamethoxam, acetamiprid and imidacloprid when tested in discontinuous systemic laboratory bioassays. The resistance factors were generally 2- to 3-fold lower in leaf-dip bioassays. In addition to the Spanish strains, we obtained two other highly neonicotinoid-cross-resistant B tabaci greenhouse populations, one from Italy (December 1999) and one from Germany (June 2001). A molecular diagnostic analysis revealed that both strains also belong to the (Spanish) subtype Q of the B tabaci species complex. The resistance levels of Q-type whitefly strains derived from Almeria greenhouses in 1999 remained stable for at least two years, even when maintained in the laboratory without any selection pressure. The biochemical mechanisms conferring resistance to neonicotinoids have not yet been elucidated in detail, but synergist studies suggested a possible involvement of microsomal monooxygenases. Furthermore, we checked two Almerian strains of B tabaci isolated in 1998 and 1999 and demonstrated that neonicotinoid resistance is not due to an altered [3H]imidacloprid binding site of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors.	1	pesticide
12243863	Monte Carlo analysis of the human chlorpyrifos-oxonase (PON1) polymorphism using a physiologically based pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (PBPK/PD) model.	Susceptibility to organophosphate (OP) insecticides, like chlorpyrifos (CPF), may result from differences in the extent of metabolic detoxification of the active metabolite, CPF-oxon. A genetic polymorphism in the arylesterase (PON1; CPF-oxonase) detoxification of OPs, results in the expression of a range of enzyme activities within humans. This study utilized Monte Carlo analysis and physiologically based pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (PBPK/PD) modeling to investigate the impact of human CPF-oxonase status on the theoretical concentration of CPF-oxon in the brain. At low doses ( approximately 5 microg/kg) the model is insensitive to changes in CPF-oxonase. However, with increasing dose (>0.5 mg/kg) the model suggests a dose-dependent non-linear increase in the brain CPF-oxon concentration, which is associated with CPF-oxonase activity. Following repeated high dose exposure, the model predicted brain CPF-oxon concentration was approximately 8x higher (5 mg/kg) versus a single exposure, whereas, at low doses (5 microg/kg), the brain concentrations were comparable regardless of exposure duration. This suggests that at low environmentally relevant exposures other esterase detoxification pathways may compensate for lower CPF-oxonase activity.	1	pesticide
12374417	Comparison of five extraction methods for determination of incurred and added pesticides in dietary composites.	The National Exposure Research Laboratory of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency conducts research to measure exposure of individuals to chemical pollutants through the diet. In support of this research, methods are being evaluated for the determination of pesticides in dietary composite samples. In the present study, Soxhlet, blender, microwave-assisted, pressurized fluid, and supercritical fluid extraction methods were compared for the determination of incurred and added pesticides in 4 dietary composites, which varied in fat and water content. Incurred pesticides were chlorothalonil, chlorpyrifos, DDE, dicloran, dieldrin, endosulfan I, malathion, cis- and trans-permethrin, and trifluralin. Added pesticides were alpha- and gamma-chlordane, hexachlorobenzene, and fonofos. Concentrations of the individual pesticides were between 0.2 and 20 ng/g composite. All 5 methods tested could extract pesticides from dietary composites. Most incurred pesticides were recovered from the dietary composites within the range of 59-140% of expected values. Recoveries of added pesticides were between 60 and 130%. Microwave-assisted extraction led to significantly higher concentrations of 7 pesticides. Blender extraction yielded significantly higher concentrations of chlorothalonil and fonofos. Water content was a significant factor in the recovery of chlorothalonil, and fat content was a significant factor in the recovery of fonofos. In designing an exposure study, the selection of the extraction method would be determined by number of samples to be extracted, analyte stability, and cost.	1	pesticide
12376118	A multi-analyte method for the quantification of contemporary pesticides in human serum and plasma using high-resolution mass spectrometry.	We have developed a sensitive and accurate analytical method for quantifying 29 contemporary pesticides in human serum or plasma. These pesticides include organophosphates, carbamates, chloroacetanilides, and synthetic pyrethroids among others and include pesticides used in agricultural and residential settings. Our method employs a simple solid-phase extraction followed by a highly selective analysis using isotope dilution gas chromatography-high-resolution mass spectrometry. Our method is very accurate, has limits of detection in the low pg/g range and coefficients of variation of typically less than 20% at the low pg/g end of the method linear range. We have used this method to measure plasma pesticide concentrations in females living in an urban area. We found detectable concentrations of carbaryl/naphthalene, propoxur, bendiocarb, chlorpyrifos, diazinon, dicloran, captan and folpet or their metabolites in more than 20% of the plasma samples tested.	1	pesticide
12376119	Estimating occupational exposure to the pyrethroid termiticide bifenthrin by measuring metabolites in urine.	The control of subterranean termites in Australia is predominantly through the application of chemical barriers in the soil beneath and surrounding buildings. The chemicals used to repel or kill termites are the organophosphorus insecticide, chlorpyrifos, and the synthetic pyrethroid, bifenthrin. These are applied through surface sprays and subfloor injection by licensed pest control operators. To determine the exposure of these personnel to these pesticides it is most usual to measure airborne concentrations or dermal deposition rates. However, to support information obtained from these methods it is often appropriate to determine the amount of the chemicals absorbed, using biological monitoring techniques including measurement of the chemicals or their metabolites in urine. While there are effective techniques for the monitoring of chlorpyrifos exposure by measuring either the alkyl phosphate or trichloropyridinol metabolites, there have been no published reports of suitable methods to measure bifenthrin metabolites in urine. This paper describes an extraction and HPLC-UV method used to simultaneously measure the urinary excretion of 2-methyl-3-phenylbenzoic acid (MPA), a metabolite of bifenthrin, and 3-phenoxybenzoic acid (PBA), a metabolite of several other common pyrethroid insecticides, with a detection limit for each of 2.5 ng/ml. The paper also describes the pilot application of this method to a study of South Australian pest control operators handling bifenthrin. MPA ranged from 1.8 to 31.9 microg/g creatinine and PBA from 1.3 to 30.0 microg/g in the urine of pest control workers. MPA was detected in urine of control workers without bifenthrin exposure only at low levels (1.0-1.4 microg/g creatinine), but PBA was found in both at higher levels (1.2-61.1 microg/g creatinine).	1	pesticide
12398370	Chlorohydrocarbon pesticides in the Australian marine environment after banning in the period from the 1970s to 1980s.	The chlorohydrocarbon pesticides (CHPs) (principally DDT, dieldrin, hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) including lindane, chlordane, heptachlor and heptachlorepoxide, aldrin and hexachlorobenzene (HCB)) were used extensively in Australia during the 1960s and 1970s. These were progressively banned from the 1970s with DDT being totally banned in 1987. The levels in marine waters are believed to have progressively declined as indicated by water in the Brisbane River, which consistently fell from maximum concentrations of about 1.7 microg/l in 1972-1973 to not detectable in 1986-1987. In some urban areas sediment concentrations, up to 1700 microg/kg dry weight, were recorded in the early 1990s which may reflect the reworking and exposure of older more contaminated material. Fish exhibited consistent occurrence of DDT, HCH, dieldrin and HCB through the 1970s to the 1990s. Maximum concentrations of DDT and dieldrin occurred generally in the 1970s at 40.3 and 8.8 microg/g wet weight, and minimums in the 1990s at 2.4 and 0.041 micro/g wet weight respectively. Inputs of dialdrin from sewage and DDT from the broad environment, reflected by the calculated daily human uptake in the diet, were shown to decline with half-lives of 1.1-1.5 and about 3 years respectively. This evidence suggests that banning of the CHPs has greatly reduced the inputs into the marine environment with consequent reductions in concentrations in biota but there is the occasional occurrence of relatively high concentrations.	1	pesticide
12399675	Permethrin 5% cream versus metronidazole 0.75% gel for the treatment of papulopustular rosacea. A randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study.	BACKGROUND: Permethrin 5% cream used against human ectoparasites suggests that it may be effective in papulopustular rosacea. METHODS: This study included 63 patients diagnosed as having papulopustular rosacea based on the clinical and histological findings. Patients were randomly assigned into permethrin (n = 23), metronidazole (n = 20) and placebo (n = 20) groups. Scores of erythema, telangiectasia, edema and rhinophyma and the numbers of papules, pustules, inflammatory nodules and Demodex folliculorum were determined. Twenty-three patients were given permethrin 5% cream (Zalvor 5% skin cream, 20 patients metronidazole 0.75% gel (Roza gel and 20 patients placebo cream (Basis cream, in packages looking identical to those of metronidazole and permethrin creams, and were recommended to apply them to their faces twice a day. All patients were also given SPF 20 cream for protection against sunlight. Two months of treatment were planned, and the patients were invited to the clinic for fortnightly controls. Scores of erythema, telangiectasia, edema and rhinophyma and the numbers of papules, pustules, inflammatory nodules and D. folliculorum were recorded at each visit. The mean scores of erythema and the mean numbers of papules, pustules and D. folliculorum were determined at baseline and on days 15, 30, 45 and 60. Side effects were also detected. RESULTS: The effect of permethrin 5% cream on D. folliculorum was superior to that of metronidazole 0.75% gel. The effect of permethrin 5% cream on erythema and papules was found to be more effective than placebo and as effective as metronidazole 0.75% gel. However, it had no effect on telangiectasia, rhinophyma and pustules. CONCLUSION: It can be concluded that the application of permethrin 5% cream twice daily for 2 months can be as effective and reliable as metronidazole in the treatment of rosacea and a greater benefit can be gained when it is combined with other systemic and/or topical treatments.	1	pesticide
12403265	Effect of different inorganic and organic compounds on sorption of 2,4-D and atrazine.	In this study, the effects of size of adsorbent, temperature, pH of solution, ionic strength, presence of inorganic substances such as calcium ion, magnesium ions, chloride ions, fertilizers and presence of organic substances such as dissolved organic matter, surfactant, other herbicides on sorption of 2,4-D and atrazine onto rubber granules were investigated. The removal efficiency was more for fine adsorbent particles. Temperature played an important role in sorption process. Temperature effect was endothermic for 2,4-D and exothermic for atrazine, respectively. The removals were maximum at pH 4 for 2,4-D and at pH 6 for atrazine. The presence of other herbicide (butachlor) reduced sorption capacity of rubber granules by approximately 10% for both 2,4-D and atrazine. All other factors had insignificant effect on sorption capacity. The mathematical expressions were developed for predicting the overall percentage removal of 2,4-D and atrazine on the basis of major four controlling factors viz. adsorbent size, temperature, pH and presence of other herbicide.	1	pesticide
12428726	Selective effects of insecticides on nigrostriatal dopaminergic nerve pathways.	A degeneration of the nigrostriatal pathway is a primary component of Parkinson's disease (PD), and we have investigated the actions of insecticides on this pathway. For in vivo exposures, C57BL/6 mice were treated three times over a 2-week period with heptachlor, the pyrethroids deltamethrin and permethrin, or chlorpyrifos. One day after the last treatment, we observed that heptachlor and the pyrethroids increased maximal [3H]dopamine uptake in striatal synaptosomes from treated mice, with dose-dependent changes in Vmax displaying a bell-shaped curve. Western blot analysis confirmed increased levels of dopamine transporter (DAT) protein in the striatum of mice treated with heptachlor and permethrin. In contrast, we observed a small, but statistically significant decrease in dopamine uptake by 100 mg/kg chlorpyrifos. For heptachlor, doses that upregulated DAT expression had little or no effect on serotonin transport. Permethrin did cause an upregulation of serotonin transport, but required a 30-fold greater dose than that effective on dopamine uptake. Other evidence of specificity was found in transmitter release assays, where heptachlor and deltamethrin released dopamine from striatal terminals with greater potency than other transmitter types. These findings confirm that insecticides possess specificity for effects on striatal dopaminergic neurotransmission.	1	pesticide
12477208	Determination of active ingredient in synthetic pyrethroid formulations by high-performance thin-layer chromatography/densitometry.	A new, simple, precise, and rapid high-performance thin-layer chromatography (HPTLC) method was developed for the analysis of commercial emulsifiable concentrate (EC) formulations of cypermethrin, alpha-cypermethrin, and lambda-cyhalothrin. A known amount of reference grade synthetic pyrethroid and its EC formulation was subjected to TLC, and the amount of pesticide present in the active ingredient spot was estimated by densitometry in a single beam, single wavelength reflectance mode. Calibration curves of the synthetic pyrethroid was linear in the range of 8-24 microg, and the correlation coefficient for the calibration equation ranged between 0.97 and 0.99. Recoveries from laboratory-prepared test samples of the EC formulation were in the range of 95-99%. Pesticide formulations were further analyzed by gas liquid chromatography using flame ionization detector, and results were comparable. The proposed HPTLC method has application for quality control and determination of the shelf life of EC formulations.	1	pesticide
12489725	Sorption of lambda-cyhalothrin, cypermethrin, deltamethrin and fenvalerate to quartz, corundum, kaolinite and montmorillonite.	Sorption to mineral surfaces may be important for retention and degradation of hydrophobic pesticides in subsoils and aquifers poor in organic matter. In this work the title pyrethroids have been used to investigate selective interactions with the surfaces of four minerals. Sorption of the four pyrethroids was quantified in batch experiments with initial pyrethroid concentrations of 1-100 microg/l. Sorption to centrifuge tubes used in the batch experiments accounted for 25-60% of total sorption. Net sorption was obtained from total sorption after subtracting the amounts of pyrethroids sorbed to centrifuge tubes used. All isotherms could be fitted by the Freundlich equation with n ranging between 0.9 and 1.1. Bonding affinities per unit surface area decreased in the order: corundum > quartz > montmorillonite approximately equal kaolinite. A similar sequence as found for the total surface tension of the minerals. All minerals showed the same selectivity order with respect to sorption affinity of the four pyrethroids: lambda-cyhalothrin > deltamethrin > cypermethrin > fenvalerate, which shows that the most hydrophobic compound is sorbed most strongly. Stereochemical properties of the four pyrethroid formulations may also contribute to the selectivity pattern.	1	pesticide
12495187	Cross-resistance to pyrethroid and organophosphorus insecticides induced by selection with temephos in Aedes aegypti (Diptera: Culicidae) from Cuba.	A sample of Aedes aegypti (L.) from Santiago de Cuba, Cuba, with a high level of temephos resistance (19.58x at the 50% lethal concentration [LC50]), was subjected to temephos selection to evaluate the utility of this organophosphate insecticide for mosquito control. High resistance developed after six generations of selection (200.00x). Little or no cross-resistance was observed to the organophosphates, malathion and fenitrothion, but high cross-resistance was observed for the pyrethroid deltamethrin (337.5x) and the organophosphate fenthion (12.74x). Synergism tests implicated detoxifying esterases in temephos and fenthion resistance and deltamethrin resistance was associated with a cytochrome P450 monooxygenasa. Biochemical tests, polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE), and inhibition studies confirmed the presence of elevated esterase activity associated with temephos resistance. Pyrethroid resistance could be associated with a glutathione-S-transferase mechanism but not the esterases. The cross-resistance to deltamethrin from temephos selection could limit the use of both insecticides for Ae. aegypti control.	1	pesticide
12499462	Occupational asthma from fungicides fluazinam and chlorothalonil.	We report two cases of occupational asthma caused by sensitisation to powdered fungicides fluazinam and chlorothalonil, from the same fungicide formulation plant. Both developed work related lower respiratory symptoms after a latent interval of asymptomatic exposure. The diagnosis in each case was confirmed with a serial peak flow record in the workplace followed by specific inhalation tests. These fungicides are known to cause dermatitis; this report indicates that these compounds can induce specific immunological reactions in the airways as well as skin.	1	pesticide
12503399	Vegetative survival, akinete and zoosporangium formation and germination in some selected algae as affected by nutrients, pH, metals, and pesticides.	Lack of nitrogen, phosphorus, or all nutrients, extremes of pH (< 4, > 11), presence of 'heavy' metals (Co, Cu, Zn, Hg, Pb; 0.5-10 ppm) or pesticides (carbofuran, 2,4-D, dithane, phorate, or bavistin; 1-50 ppm) decreased to various extent or completely inhibited the survival or vegetative cells in all studied algae. The formation of akinetes, their viability and germination in Anabaena iyengarii, Westiellopsis prolifica, Nostochopsis lobatus and Pithophora oedogonia and the formation of zoosporangia, their viability, and the germination of zoospores in Cladophora glomerata and Rhizoclonium hieroglyphicum was affected. The formation of viable akinetes or zoosporangia was shown to be directly linked with vegetative cell survival and growth; it could not be induced by any chemical stress imposed.	1	pesticide
12503761	ICON rice seed treatment toxicity to crayfish (Procambarus clarkii) in experimental rice paddies.	Outdoor pools (2.3 x 2.3 m) were used to simulate typical rice agricultural practices in Louisiana, USA, to evaluate the toxicity of ICON (active ingredient [a.i.] fipronil) and its degradates to crayfish (Procambarus clarkii). Six paddies were planted with seed treated with ICON 6.2 FS at an exaggerated application rate of 0.05 kg a.i./ha (recommended rate, 0.042 kg a.i./ha), simulating three rice-planting scenarios. Two reference paddies were planted with untreated seed. Crayfish were exposed to tail water within 24 to 48 h after seeding, simulating standard Louisiana agricultural and water management practices. At 50 d after planting, a separate group of crayfish was caged in situ for 14 d to evaluate toxicity. An additional 50 crayfish were added to two paddies approximately 100 d after rice planting and held for 29 weeks to evaluate bioaccumulation. Residues of fipronil and its degradates in water and soil were similar to residue concentrations measured from rice fields in Louisiana. Tail water from the treated paddies was not toxic to crayfish. The fipronil 96-h median lethal concentration (LC50) for adult crayfish was 180 microg/L, which would provide at least a sixfold safety factor between the maximum fipronil concentration in tail water and the crayfish LC50. In situ exposures of crayfish also were not toxic. Concentrations of fipronil and its degradates after 29 weeks of exposure were less than 5 microg/kg in crayfish tail muscle tissue. These results demonstrate that label instructions adequately protect crayfish in a rice-crayfish cropping scenario when ICON is applied at maximum application rates as a seed treatment.	1	pesticide
12510899	Pyrethroid resistance in tropical bedbugs, Cimex hemipterus, associated with use of treated bednets.	When Tanzanian villages were provided with pyrethroid-treated bednets, bedbugs (Cimicidae) disappeared; however, after about 6 years they have re-appeared in these villages. Using a newly devised test-kit, susceptibility tests of bedbugs Cimex hemipterus (Fabricius) from five of these villages showed that there is resistance to permethrin and alphacypermethrin in bedbugs from each of the villages, in contrast to those from five villages without treated nets. Circumstantial evidence indicates that bedbug resistance to pyrethroid insecticides may evolve more readily in villages with incomplete coverage rates of treated bednets, allowing bedbug infestations to become re-established. Bedbugs have not returned to a village where nearly all the beds have been provided with pyrethroid-treated bednets for 14 years.	1	pesticide
12523542	Biofouling confounds the uptake of trace organic contaminants by semi-permeable membrane devices (SPMDs).	The outer layers of layflat, low density polyethylene plastic tubing (the principal component of semi-permeable membrane devices, SPMDs) were biofouled at a clean site in Hong Kong coastal waters for periods of 1-4 weeks. Following pre-fouling, triolein was added to the SPMDs and, along with control (unfouled) devices, they were exposed to a range of organochlorine pesticides (alpha-HCH, aldrin, p,p'-DDT) and PAHs (anthracene, fluoranthene and benzo(a)pyrene) under laboratory conditions. Results showed that the uptake of contaminants by SPMDs was severely reduced by as much as 50% under fouling conditions in comparison to unfouled controls. The ultimate utility of SPMDs as passive monitors is thus reduced, although alternative measures, such as the use of permeability reference compounds may compensate, and allow for realistic evaluations of dissolved environmental concentrations in aquatic environments. However, due to the complexities involved in such procedures--especially as they need to be conducted on a case-by-case basis-the utility of SPMDs appears to be limited for estimates of bioavailability unless necessary calibrations are undertaken within each environment that the sampler is used.	1	pesticide
12537443	Comparison of a direct ELISA and an HPLC method for glyphosate determinations in water.	A competitive direct enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and high-pressure liquid chromatographic (HPLC) methods were compared in terms of accuracy and precision for the detection and quantification of glyphosate-spiked Nanopure, tap, and river waters. The ELISA had a detection limit of 0.6 ng mL(-)(1) and a linear working range of 1-25 ng mL(-)(1), whereas the HPLC method had a detection limit of 50 ng mL(-)(1) and a linear working range of 100-10000 ng mL(-)(l). No statistically significant differences (95% confidence interval) were found between the ELISA and HPLC analysis of the three water matrixes. The coefficients of variation obtained with the ELISA in tap water were between 10 and 19%, whereas the coefficients of variation for the HPLC analysis were between 7 and 15%. The use of ELISA for the analysis of glyphosate in water is a cost-effective and reliable method capable of meeting water quality guidelines established for Europe and North America.	1	pesticide
12541918	[Analysis of carbaryl and other pesticides by capillary electrophoresis].	Five pesticides, i.e. carbaryl, simazine, atrazine, arnetryne and prometryn were separated by capillary electrophoresis technique. The effects of experimental parameters including pH, the concentration of surfactant and organic modifier on the separation were investigated. From the experiments, we found the optimum electrophoretic conditions were as follows: 20 mmol/L borate-50 mmol/L sodium dodecyl sulfate-10% methanol (volume fraction) as the running buffer (pH 9.2), applied voltage of 25 kV, detection wavelength of 225 nm. Under the optimum conditions, baseline-separation of each component has been obtained using anionic surfactant for micellar electrokinetic chromatography. The results indicated that the calibration curve of carbaryl was linear in the range of concentrations 30 mg/L-200 mg/L. This method has been applied to the determination of real sample with satisfactory results obtained, and the recovery of carbaryl was 93.4%-101.3%, and the relative standard deviation of peak area was 2.59%.	1	pesticide
12560168	Acetylcholinesterase activity in copepods (Tigriopus brevicornis) from the Vilaine River estuary, France, as a biomarker of neurotoxic contaminants.	From April 1997 to June 1998, 14 measurements of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) enzymatic activity were performed with the copepod, Tigriopus brevicornis, collected at five stations in the Vilaine River estuary (South Brittany, France). Simultaneously, four chemical analyses of triazines and one analysis of total pesticides in water were undertaken. AChE activity levels in T. brevicornis were compared to the levels measured at a reference site not exposed to effluents from Vilaine River. Results reveal significant differences between AChE activity levels depending on location of stations in the plume of the river with an increasing gradient of activity from the upstream to the downstream stations, thus indicating that neurotoxic contaminants are mainly brought by the river. The average degree of AChE inhibition between the reference site and the most upstream site is 70-80% during spring in 1997 and 1998. In May 1997, live copepods from the different sites were brought back and transferred to clean seawater. After 14 days, recovery of AChE activity was almost total when compared to the control. Moreover, using a linear regression model and the atrazine concentration as marker of the presence of pesticides, low levels of AChE activity were significantly explained by atrazine concentration in water.	1	pesticide
12560173	Stage sensitivity of medaka (Oryzias latipes) eggs and embryos to permethrin.	The effects of exposure to permethrin on gametes, fertilization and embryonic development were examined in medaka (Oryzias latipes). Following range finding (25, 50, 100, 200 or 300 microg/l) and duration of exposure (0, 120, 144, 168, 192, 216, or 240-h) assays, the relative sensitivity was studied when initiation of exposure to permethrin (100 microg/l, for 192-h) occurred at one of four different stages, i.e., unfertilized egg (0-h), late morula (5-h), early neurula (24-h), and early organogenesis (40-h). The later exposure interval proved the most sensitive. Also, differences were observed in rates of recovery in larvae initially affected following the earliest exposure treatment (0-h, gametes prior to fertilization). Permethrin (100 microg/l) did not affect fertilization success and no lethal effects were observed in embryos. Sublethal effects were primarily observed at hatch. Toxicity endpoints in larvae included: delayed swim bladder inflation; inability of hatchling to respond to stimulus; uncoordinated movements, myoskeletal defects and transient enlargement of gall bladder. These changes were characteristic for all hatchlings exposed to nominal concentrations of 50 microg/l. While certain of the above alterations were reversed within 72-h after hatching, lack of swim bladder inflation and inability to respond to stimuli were two features that persisted with significant incidences. Based on persistence of sublethal effects, results from this work indicate the importance of exposures to gametes and to embryos prior to water hardening. The approach taken herein may better reflect environmental risk conditions than assays limited to exposure of embryonated eggs.	1	pesticide
12568385	Methods for selective determination of persistent organochlorine pesticide residues in water and sediments by capillary gas chromatography and electron-capture detection.	Different extraction methods were evaluated for the determination of fifteen organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) in water and sediments. Liquid-liquid extraction (LLE) was evaluated for the pesticides analyses in water while Soxhlet extraction (SE) and microwave assisted extraction (MAE) methods were compared in sediment. Of all the extracting solvents used, dichloromethane gave the best results. Percentage recoveries ranged from 71.03 +/- 8.15 (dieldrin) to 101.25 +/- 2.17% [a-benzenehexachloride (alpha-BHC)] in water with LLE. In sediments the percentage recoveries with Soxhlet extraction method varied between 88.22 +/- 7.85 (endrin) and 109.63 +/- 5.10% (beta-BHC) and ranged from 74.11 +/- 9.82 (2,4 DDT) to 97.50 +/- 4.56% (alpha-BHC) with MAE. The limits of detection for the OCPs ranged from 5.5 to 20.6 ng/l and between 0.6 and 2.1 ng/g. respectively. The LLE and the SE methods were applied to water and sediments samples, respectively, from marine and freshwater sources in the Eastern Cape Province of South Africa that receive runoffs from agricultural lands and effluents from industries. The levels of OCPs ranged from 5.5 (2,4-DDD) to 450 +/- 0.10 ng/l (beta-BHC) in water samples and from 0.6 (aldrin and 2,4-DDD) to 184 +/- 0.12 ng/g (beta-BHC) in sediments for triplicate analyses. Some endocrine disrupting OCPs such as DDT, DDE, heptachlor, endosulphan and the chlordanes were detected.	1	pesticide
12580482	Fast supercritical fluid extraction and high-resolution gas chromatography with electron-capture and flame photometric detection for multiresidue screening of organochlorine and organophosphorus pesticides in Brazil's medicinal plants.	A description is given of a rapid and environmentally friendly method to determine organochlorine and organophosphorus pesticide multiresidues--malathion, methidathion, fenitrothion, fenthion, parathion-ethyl, parathion-methyl, lindane, hexachlorobenzene, chlorothalonil, tetradifon, alpha-endosulfan, beta-endosulfan and dieldrin-in Passiflora alata Dryander and pasiflora edulis Sims. f. flavicarpa Deg. leaves by supercritical fluid extraction and high-resolution gas chromatography with electron-capture and flame photometric detection (HRGC-ECD/FPD). The mild extraction conditions [pure CO2; 100 bar (1 bar = 10(5) Pa) and 40 degrees C (p = 0.62 g/ml); 5 min static+10 min dynamic extraction time; ODS trap and elution with 1 ml n-hexane at 2 ml/min] allow for direct analysis by HRGC-ECD/FPD with no prior cleaning procedure. The method provides. in accordance with the validation criteria of the European Pharmacopoeia, analytical results that are similar or even better than the official procedures, and is simpler, faster and cheaper. Mean recoveries of 69.8-107.1% were obtained, with 1.4-14.7% reproducibility (RSD). The method was applied to analyse commercial samples of Passiflora L. from Brazil. Twenty-three percent of the samples showed the presence of the organochlorine or organophosphorus pesticide residue investigated.	1	pesticide
12584681	Efficacy of three dose volumes of topically applied 65% permethrin against Ctenocephalides felis and Rhipicephalus sanguineus on dogs weighing 30 kg or more.	"Twenty-five dogs were evenly and randomly allocated by weight to five treatment groups: untreated control, 2 ml 65% permethrin (dogs weighing 15 to 29 kg, ""average dogs""), and 2, 3, or 4 ml 65% permethrin (dogs weighing > or = 30 kg, ""big dogs""). Each dog was infested with 125 unfed, adult cat fleas, Ctenocephalides felis, and 50 unfed, adult brown dog ticks, Rhipicephalus sanguineus, on Days -3 (ticks only), -2 (fleas only), 3, 7, 14, 17, 21, 24, and 28. Fleas and ticks were counted 1 and 3 or 4 days after each infestation. The duration of efficacy (defined as >90%) against C. felis was 28 to 31 days. The efficacy against fleas 31 days after application of 2, 3, or 4 ml on big dogs ranged from 79.1% (2 ml) to 100% (4 ml). Big dogs that received either 3 or 4 ml of 65% permethrin had significantly (P < or = .05) fewer fleas at several evaluations between 15 and 31 days after treatment. The duration of efficacy against R. sanguineus was 15 (2 ml for big dogs) to 28 (2 ml for average dogs) days. The efficacy against R. sanguineus 28 days after treatment ranged from 79.1% (2 ml on big dogs) to 94.1% (2 ml on average dogs). Significantly (P < or = .05) fewer ticks were present at several evaluations after treatment on big dogs that received 3 or 4 ml than were present on big dogs treated with 2 ml. No significant differences were detected between the 3- and 4-ml groups from Days 10 to 31; however, the geometric mean number of ticks in the group treated with 4 ml was numerically lower than that for dogs treated with 3 ml on several occasions. These data indicate that a dose volume of 3 or 4 ml of 65% permethrin is needed to obtain an adequate level and duration of efficacy against both C. felis and R. sanguineus on dogs weighing 30 kg or more."	1	pesticide
12587878	The influence of lipophilicity and formulation on the distribution of pesticides in laboratory-scale sediment/water systems.	Pesticide reaching surface waters will be sorbed by sediment. This sorption process and the influence of pesticide formulation have been examined at 10 degrees C in small-scale systems having 2-cm depth of sediment and 8-cm overlying water stirred gently. Eight pesticides (triasulfuron, isoproturon, chlorotoluron, phenmedipham, difenoconazole, chlorpyrifos, pendimethalin and permethrin), spanning a range of physicochemical properties, were applied individually to the water. Sorption equilibrium was reached at between 15 and 30 days, the proportion of pesticide then in the sediment ranging from 20% for the acidic and therefore polar triasulfuron to 97% for the lipophilic permethrin; this behaviour was not influenced by formulation. Sorption coefficients measured in batch tests over 2 h gave good estimates of the equilibrium distribution. Some degradation was observed for all compounds over 90 days; for some compounds and formulations, enhanced degradation occurred after 20 to 60 days. It is concluded that lipophilicity is the chief determinant of pesticide distribution in sediment/water systems.	1	pesticide
12701698	Structure-activity relationship study of alkynyl ether insecticide synergists and the development of MB-599 (verbutin).	Structure-activity relationships of aryl alkynyl synergists of the general formula of Ar-Q-R, where Q represents a bridging structure, were studied using a standardised testing system and Relative Potency values. Ethers, esters, oxime ethers, amides and amines were prepared and evaluated. The length of the R-alkynyl chain, the role of the bridge and the substitution of the aromatic ring were examined systematically. The most potent compounds possessed an aromatic ring connected via a bridge of three atoms to an alkynyl chain, forming together a linear side-chain of six atoms. Several highly potent compounds were synthesised of which one (MB-599; proposed common name verbutin) was selected for development as a selective insecticide synergist in crop protection. Its high potential at practical insecticide:synergist ratios makes possible the reduction of the total amount of insect-control chemicals applied, and its use as an additive to produce new formulations of existing insecticides makes it highly advantageous in resistance management, giving a new tool to sustain the effectiveness of a wide range of insecticides. A product containing a (1+1) mixture of verbutin and beta-cypermethrin was launched in Hungary in 2002.	1	pesticide
12712690	[Effects of pyrethroids on the glutamate uptake system in synaptic vesicle of rats].	In order to study the effects of cypermethrin and permethrin insecticides on the glutamate uptake of rat brain, brain synaptic vesicles and cypermethrin or permethrin were incubated with 3H-glutamate (37 KBq, 1 mumol/L). The radio activity was detected by a liquid scintillation counter. The results showed that cypermethrin and permethrin in the concentration of 10(-9)-10(-4) mol/L could inhibit the high affinity uptake of glutamate in the synaptosomes of cerebral cortex, hippocampus and striatum in a dose-response manner. Cypermethrin was more powerful than permethrin at the same dose. It was concluded that glutamate uptake inhibition might play a vital role in the neurotoxicity induced by pyrethroid insecticides.	1	pesticide
12716044	Pesticide runoff model (PeRM): a case study for the Kintore Creek Watershed, Ontario, Canada.	An integrated model, the Pesticide Runoff Model (PeRM), has been developed to predict pesticide losses due to runoff by considering the emission, degradation, adsorption and desorption of pesticides, as well as their movement in dissolved and adsorbed phases. The developed modeling system has been used to calculate the losses of atrazine from agricultural lands in the Kintore Creek Watershed, Ontario, Canada between 1988 and 1992. The modeling outputs have been verified against actual monitoring data, which were obtained from a water quality monitoring project carried out in the same watershed over the same period of time.	1	pesticide
12723887	Circadian response of annual weeds in a natural setting to high and low application rates of four herbicides with different modes of actions.	Four herbicides [glyphosate (GLYT), an amino acid synthesis inhibitor; glufosinate (GLUF), a glutamine synthetase inhibitor; fomesafen (FOME), a protoporphyrinogen oxidase inhibitor, and chlorimuron ethyl (CLIM), an acetolactate synthase inhibitor] were used to examine the influence of time of day of application on the control of a variety of annual broadleaf weeds in field studies conducted in Minnesota (five studies on GLYT and GLUF, three studies on FOME and CLIM). All herbicides were applied with an adjuvant at recommended high and low (half or quarter strength) rates every 3h between 06:00 and 24:00h local time. Visual ratings of percent weed control evaluated at 14d were analyzed by herbicide and application rate for each study and across studies for time-of-day effect by analysis of variance (ANOVA) and single cosinor. A circadian response to each herbicide was found, with greatest weed control observed between 09:00 and 18:00h. Increasing the herbicide application rate did not overcome the time-of-day effect (ANOVA: p < or = 0.008 for time-of-day effect for each herbicide and application rate). The least-squares fit of a 24h cosine was significant (p < or = 0.001) for each herbicide and application rate, with double amplitudes of 18-82% (units = % visual control) and estimated peaks (acrophases) near midday between 12:40 and 13:35h. Analysis of residuals obtained from multiple regression that included weed height, herbicide rate, temperature, and relative humidity as independent factors also found a significant time-effect by both ANOVA and cosinor for each herbicide and rate, with acrophases advancing significantly by 3 to 7h for GLYT and GLUF, but not for FOME or CLIM. These results suggest that the four herbicides, while belonging to different families with different modes of action, may reveal different peak times of efficacy when adjusting for environmental factors. Nonetheless, each displays similar circadian patterns when influenced by these factors under natural seasonal field conditions. The within-day rhythmic differences found in weed control are large enough to warrant consideration of the practical financial and environmental importance of the time-of-day that these and other herbicides are applied.	1	pesticide
12725389	Simultaneous analysis of carbamate pesticides in tap and raw water by LC/ESI/MS.	Ten carbamate pesticides including four suspected endocrine disruptors, methomyl, benomyl (carbendazim), aldicarb and carbaryl, were simultaneously analyzed by LC/ESI/MS. The influence of the matrix on the variation of the ion signal intensities of (M + H)+ and adduct ions was investigated. Although the intensities of three oxamyl ions changed depending on the matrix, the variation in the concentration calculation of oxamyl was reduced by using the sum total of the area value of two ions. The limits of the quantitation of ten pesticides without a concentration procedure were from 0.4 - 30 microg/l. The solid-phase recovery rates of ten pesticides spiked into tap water and raw water were in the range of 69-111%. Using this method, the concentrations of the pesticides in tap and raw water sampled at 14 monitoring points in Hyogo Prefecture were determined. Carbendazim in three raw water samples and carbofuran in one of these three samples were detected at low concentrations (less than 0.32 microg/l).	1	pesticide
12749484	Impact of permethrin-treated bed nets on the incidence of sick child visits to peripheral health facilities.	During a randomized controlled trial of insecticide (permethrin)-treated bed nets (ITNs) in an area with intense malaria transmission in western Kenya, we monitored 20,915 sick child visits (SCVs) by children less than five years of age visiting seven peripheral health facilities. The SCVs were monitored over a four-year period both before (1995-1996) and during the intervention (1997-1998). Results are used to estimate the effect of ITNs on the burden of malaria in this community and to evaluate the potential role of these facilities in assessment of the impact of large-scale public health interventions. Compared with baseline, a 27% greater reduction in the incidence of SCVs was seen in ITN villages than in control villages (37% versus 10%; P = 0.049). A similar reduction was observed in SCVs diagnosed as malaria (35% reduction in ITN villages versus 5% reduction in controls; P = 0.04). Two-hundred sixteen SCVs per 1,000 child-years were prevented; three-fourths of these were in children less than 24 months old. As a consequence of lack of laboratory facilities, severe anemia was rarely (< 2%) diagnosed, regardless of intervention status. No effect of ITNs on the incidence of respiratory tract infections, diarrhea, and other commonly diagnosed childhood illnesses was observed. The ITNs reduced the number of SCVs due to malaria, but had no effect on other illnesses. Routine statistics from these facilities provided useful information on trends in malaria incidence, but underestimated the burden of severe anemia.	1	pesticide
12749486	Reduction of malaria during pregnancy by permethrin-treated bed nets in an area of intense perennial malaria transmission in western Kenya.	The impact of insecticide (permethrin)-treated bed nets (ITNs) on malaria in pregnancy was studied in a rural area in western Kenya with intense perennial malaria transmission. All households in 40 of 79 villages were randomized to receive ITNs by January 1997. The ITNs were distributed in control villages two years later. Complete data on birth outcome were available on 2,754 (89.6%) of 3,072 deliveries. Women (n = 780) were followed monthly throughout pregnancy in 19 of 79 villages. Among gravidae 1-4, ITNs were associated with reductions of 38% (95% confidence interval [CI] = 17-54%) in the incidence of malaria parasitemia and 47% (95% CI = 6-71%) in the incidence of severe malarial anemia (hemoglobin level < 8 g/dL with parasitemia) during pregnancy. At the time of delivery, mean hemoglobin levels were 0.6 g/dL (95% CI = 0.01-1.2 g/dL) higher, the prevalence of placental or maternal malaria was reduced by 35% (95% CI = 20-47%), and the prevalence of low birth weight was reduced by 28% (95% CI = 2-47%) in gravidae 1-4 from ITN villages. No beneficial impact was observed in gravidae five or higher. In areas of intense perennial malaria transmission, permethrin-treated bed nets reduce the adverse effect of malaria during the first four pregnancies.	1	pesticide
12749488	Impact of permethrin-treated bed nets on malaria, anemia, and growth in infants in an area of intense perennial malaria transmission in western Kenya.	As part of a community-based, group-randomized, controlled trial of insecticide-treated bed nets (ITNs) in an area with intense malaria transmission in western Kenya, a birth cohort (n = 833) was followed monthly until the age of 24 months to determine the potential beneficial and adverse effects of reduced malaria exposure during pregnancy and infancy. Malaria transmission and morbidity were comparable pre-intervention. The ITNs reduced malaria attack rates (force of infection) in infancy by 74%, and delayed the median time-to-first parasitemia (4.5 to 10.7 months; P < 0.0001). The incidence of both clinical malaria and moderate-severe anemia (hemoglobin level <7 g/dL) were reduced by 60% (P < 0.001 for both). Protective efficacy was greatest in infants less than three months old and similar in older infants and one-year-old children. Efficacy was lowest in the dry season. Infants from ITN villages experienced better height and weight gain. In areas of intense perennial malaria transmission, ITNs substantially reduce exposure to malaria and subsequent malaria-associated morbidity in children less than 24 months old. Reduced malaria exposure during infancy did not result, with continued ITN use, in increased malaria morbidity in one-year-old children.	1	pesticide
12749493	Effects of permethrin-treated bed nets on immunity to malaria in western Kenya II. Antibody responses in young children in an area of intense malaria transmission.	As part of a large community-based trial on the impact of insecticide (permethrin)-treated bed nets (ITNs) on childhood morbidity and mortality in an area of intense perennial malaria transmission in western Kenya, we assessed the effects of ITNs on malaria-specific humoral responses in young children. The IgG responses to Plasmodium falciparum pre-erythrocytic antigens circumsporozoite protein (CSP) and liver stage antigen-1 (LSA-1) and the blood stage antigen merozoite surface protein-1 (MSP-1(19) kD) in children less than three years old were investigated during a series of cross-sectional surveys. At 14 and 22 months after the introduction of ITNs, the frequencies and levels of IgG to CSP and LSA-1 were significantly lower in children from ITN villages than in children from control villages (P < 0.001). In contrast, the prevalence of IgG to MSP-1 was significantly higher in children from ITN villages at 14 months (P = 0.0069), but not at 22 months. Our results show that decreased exposure by ITNs reduces IgG responses to pre-erythrocytic antigens, but there was no evidence that two years of ITN use compromises IgG responses to blood stage antigens in these young children in this malaria holoendemic area.	1	pesticide
12753636	Absence of the kdr mutation in the molecular 'M' form suggests different pyrethroid resistance mechanisms in the malaria vector mosquito Anopheles gambiae s.s.	Field tests conducted on adult Anopheles mosquitoes using standard WHO procedures, diagnostic kits and test papers in south-western Nigeria showed pyrethroid (deltamethrin and permethrin) resistance in adult populations of Anopheles gambiae sensu stricto. The knock-down resistance (kdr) mutation involved in pyrethroid resistance was only found in the molecular S form of An. gambiae s.s. even in area where both molecular M and S forms occurred in sympatry. The absence of the kdr mutation in the M form suggests an additional pyrethroid resistance mechanism in An. gambiae s.s.	1	pesticide
12766256	Differential actions of fipronil and dieldrin insecticides on GABA-gated chloride channels in cockroach neurons.	Fipronil and dieldrin are known to inhibit GABA receptors in both mammals and insects. However, the mechanism of selective toxicity of these insecticides between mammals and insects remains to be seen. One possible mechanism is that insect GABA receptors are more sensitive than mammalian GABAA receptors to fipronil and dieldrin. We examined differential actions of fipronil and dieldrin on GABA-gated chloride channels in insects and compared them with the data on mammalian GABAA receptors. Neurons were acutely dissociated from the American cockroach thoracic ganglia, and currents evoked by GABA were recorded by the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. GABA-evoked currents were carried by chloride ions, blocked by picrotoxinin, but not by bicuculline. Fipronil inhibited GABA currents with an IC50 value of 28 nM, whereas dieldrin exhibited a dual action potentiation with an EC50 value of 4 nM followed by inhibition with an IC50 value of 16 nM. Fipronil and dieldrin acted on the resting receptor at comparable rates, whereas fipronil blocked the activated receptor 10 times faster than dieldrin. Fipronil inhibition was partially reversible, whereas dieldrin inhibition was irreversible. Fipronil was 59 times more potent on cockroach GABA receptors than on rat GABAA receptors. However, the potentiating and inhibitory potencies of dieldrin in cockroach GABA receptors were comparable with those in rat GABAA receptors. It was concluded that the higher toxicity of fipronil in insects than in mammals is due partially to the higher sensitivity of GABA receptors. The mechanism of dieldrin's selective toxicity must lie in factors other than the sensitivity of GABA receptors.	1	pesticide
12767693	Characterization of the in vitro kinetic interaction of chlorpyrifos-oxon with rat salivary cholinesterase: a potential biomonitoring matrix.	The primary mechanism of action for organophosphorus (OP) insecticides such as chlorpyrifos (CPF) involves the inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) by their active oxon metabolites resulting in a wide range of neurotoxic effects. These oxons also inhibit other cholinesterases (ChE) such as butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE), which represents a detoxification mechanism and a potential biomarker for OP insecticide exposure/response. Salivary biomonitoring has recently been explored as a practical method for examination of chemical exposure, however, there are few studies exploring the use of saliva for OP insecticides. To evaluate the use of salivary ChE as a biological monitor for OP insecticide exposure, a modified Ellman assay in conjunction with a pharmacodynamic model was used to characterize salivary ChE in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. Comparison of rat saliva, brain, and plasma ChE activity in the presence of selective inhibitors of AChE and BuChE (BW284C51 and iso-OMPA, respectively) with different ChE substrates indicated that rat salivary ChE activity is primarily associated with BuChE (>95%). Further characterization of rat salivary BuChE kinetics yielded an average total BuChE active site concentration of 1.20+/-0.13 fmol ml(-1) saliva, an average reactivation rate constant (Kr) of 0.070+/-0.008 h(-1), and an inhibitory rate constant (Ki) of approximately 9 nM(-1) h(-1). The pharmacodynamic model successfully described the in vitro BuChE activity profile as well as the kinetic parameters. These results support the potential utility of saliva as a biomonitoring matrix for evaluating occupational and environmental exposure to CPF and other OP insecticides.	1	pesticide
12776786	The comparative efficacy of yohimbine and atipamezole to treat amitraz intoxication in dogs.	This study compared the efficacy of yohimbine with atipamezole, a new alpha2 adrenergic antagonist, to treat canine amitraz intoxication. Thirty dogs were divided equally into 3 groups (A, AY, and AA). Group A received 2.5% amitraz iv at 1 mg/kg; Group AY received the same dose of amitraz followed 30 min later by 0.1 mg/kg (2 mg/mL) yohimbine iv; and Group AA received the same dose of amitraz followed 30 min later by 0.2 mg/kg (5 mg/ mL) atipamezole iv. Temperature, heart rate, respiratory frequency, mean arterial pressure, degree of sedation, mean time of tranquilization and diameter of pupils were monitored for 360 min. Sedation, loss of reflexes, hypothermia, bradycardia, hypotension, bradypnea and mydriasis were observed in Group A, with 3rd eyelid prolapse, increased diuresis and vomiting in some animals. Yohimbine reversed all alterations induced by amitraz, but induced significant cardiorespiratory effects such as tachycardia and tachypnea. Atipamezole was a useful antagonist for amitraz, with less cardiorespiratory effects, suggesting its potential role as an alternative treatment of amitraz intoxication in dogs.	1	pesticide
12779227	Screening and determination of pesticides in soil using continuous subcritical water extraction and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	In the present work the efficiency of water under subcritical conditions for the extraction of pesticides having a broad spectrum of polarities from soils was evaluated. The pesticides under study were carbofuran, hexachlorobenzene, dimethoate, simazine, atrazine, lindane, diazinon, methylparathion, alachlor, aldrin-R, metholachlor, chlorpyrifos, heptachlor epoxide, dieldrin, endrin, 4,4-DDT and metoxichlor. Optimization studies were carried out using a blank soil (Non-Polluted Soil 1, CLN-1, RTC) and a real soil which were previously spiked with the pesticide mixture and aged for 60 days. A laboratory-made aluminum oven with controlled temperature was used to carry out the leaching process with subcritical water, where it is placed a pre-heater and the extraction cell. The following variables were studied, keeping the pressure controlled about 1200 p.s.i.: the extraction temperature, the time of static and dynamic extraction and the flow-rate of water (1 p.s.i. = 6894.76 Pa). The extraction efficiency of the pesticides increases with the temperature trending to the quantitative extraction at temperatures near to 300 degrees C. After the extraction process, the analytes were transferred quantitatively to 5 ml dichloromethane, before the determination by GC-MS. The results indicate that under the optimized conditions mostly of the analytes are extracted quantitatively in 90 min with recoveries quite similar to those obtained by the standard Soxhlet extraction procedure. Alternatively, by using an extraction time of 25 min, the method can be used as screening for all the pesticides, with recoveries depending on their polarity.	1	pesticide
12810310	Accumulation features of persistent organochlorines in resident and migratory birds from Asia.	Concentrations of organochlorine contaminants including polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane and its metabolites (DDTs), hexachlorocyclohexane isomers (HCHs), chlordane compounds (CHLs), hexachlorobenzene (HCB) were determined in the resident and migratory birds, which were collected from India, Japan, Philippines, Russia (Lake Baikal) and Vietnam. Accumulation patterns of organochlorine concentrations in resident birds suggested that the predominant contaminants of each country were as follows: Japan--PCBs Philippines--PCBs and CHLs, India--HCHs and DDTs, Vietnam--DDTs, and Lake Baikal--PCBs and DDTs. The migratory birds from Philippines and Vietnam retained mostly the highest concentrations of DDTs among the organochlorines analyzed, indicating the presence of stopover and breeding grounds of those birds in China and Russia. On the other hand, migratory birds from India and Lake Baikal showed different patterns of organochlorine residues, reflecting that each species has inherent migratory routes and thus has exposure to different contaminants. Species which have breeding grounds around the Red Sea and Persian Gulf showed high levels of PCBs, indicating the presence of areas heavily polluted by PCBs in the Middle East.	1	pesticide
12811448	A liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry method for quantification of specific organophosphorus pesticide biomarkers in human urine.	Organophosphorus pesticides are commonly used in both agricultural and residential settings. The widespread use of these chemicals makes it almost impossible for humans to avoid exposure. In order to determine background human exposure, there is a need for fast, reliable, and sensitive analytical methods. We have developed a sensitive method to quantify specific biomarkers of the organophosphorus pesticides acephate, azinphos, chlorpyrifos, coumaphos, diazinon, isazofos, malathion, methamidophos, parathion and pirimiphos or their O,O-dimethyl analogues in human urine, as their selective metabolites or as the intact pesticide. Isotopically labeled internal standards were used for eight of the analytes. The use of labeled internal standards in combination with high-performance liquid chromatography electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry provided a high degree of specificity. Repeated analysis of urine samples fortified with high and low concentrations of the analytes gave relative standard deviations (RSD) of less than 10% for the analytes with an isotopically labeled standard. Analytes without isotopically labeled standards had higher RSD. For all compounds except methamidophos and acephate, the recoveries were greater than 70%. The limits of quantification for most of the analytes were in the range of 0.1 to 1 ng/mL. We detected concentrations of most of these pesticides and/or their metabolites in urine samples from non-occupationally exposed persons using our method. Our frequencies of detection for the analytes measured ranged from 1% to 98%.	1	pesticide
12866824	Pyrethroid susceptibility & enzyme activity in two malaria vectors, Anopheles stephensi (Liston) &. A. culicifacies (Giles) from Mysore, India.	BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: Anopheles stephensi and A. culicifacies are the two major vectors of malaria in Karnataka. These mosquito populations are continuously being exposed directly or indirectly to different insecticides including the most effective pyrethroids. Therefore, there is a threat of insecticide resistance development. We subjected these vectors to larval bioassay using two popular pyrethroids viz deltamethrin and permethrin. An attempt was also made to correlate the activities of certain detoxifying enzymes such as A- esterase, B-esterase, glutathione-S transferase (GST) and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) with the tolerance levels of the two vectors. METHODS: Larval bioassay was carried out following the standard WHO procedure on field-collected larvae. The LC50 and LC90 values were calculated following Probit analysis. Biochemical estimations were done with a U V spectrophotometer and the isozyme studies employing native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE). RESULTS: The results of the larval bioassay revealed that A. stephensi has more tolerance to deltamethrin than A. culicifacies and vice versa for permethrin. Biochemical estimations revealed significantly (P < 0.05) higher levels of A-esterase and GST activity in A. stephensi whereas A. culicifacies showed significantly higher (P < 0.05) levels of B-esterase and G6PD activity. The total larval protein assayed was found to be more (P < 0.05) in A. stephensi. The isozyme profiles also revealed difference in mobility, intensity and the number of bands. INTERPRETATION & CONCLUSION: As these malaria vectors are exposed to different kinds of insecticides, they develop increased enzyme activities to overcome the insecticide pressure. This has enhanced the tolerance level against the pyrethroids tested. Thus, A. stephensi was found to be tolerant to deltamethrin depicting a higher activity of A-esterase and GST enzymes, whereas the higher activity of B-esterase and G6PD has resulted in the development of tolerance to permethrin in A. culicifacies.	1	pesticide
12870297	[The use amount of chlordane, heptachlor and heptachlor epoxide in Poland].	Chlordanes, heptachlor and heptachlor epoxide exposure from a particular food items in Poland in 1970-1996 was calculated by multiplying its annualized mean consumption rates by residue concentration in the food. Estimated daily dietary intakes of chlordanes were from 0.35 to 0.42 microgram per person while of heptachlor and heptachlor epoxide from 0.51 to 0.58 microgram per person, on the average. Fish, meat and meat products and butter are a main source of chlordanes intake in a total diet in Poland, while in the case of heptachlor and heptachlor epoxide a main source are meat, meat products and animal fats.	1	pesticide
12916845	Pesticides, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, and polychlorinated biphenyls in transport in two atlantic coastal plain tributaries and loadings to Chesapeake Bay.	Concentrations of current-use pesticides, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and organochlorine (OC) insecticides were determined above the reach of tide in the Chesterville Branch and Nanticoke River on the eastern shore of Chesapeake Bay during base-flow and storm-flow hydrologic regimes to evaluate mass transport to Chesapeake Bay. The two rivers monitored showed relatively high concentrations of atrazine, simazine, alachlor, and metolachlor in comparison to previously investigated western shore tributaries, and reflected the predominant agricultural land use in the eastern shore watersheds. The four current use pesticides showed the greatest seasonal contribution to annual loadings to tidal waters of Chesapeake Bay from the two rivers, and the relative order of annual loadings for the other contaminant classes was PAHs > PCBs > OC insecticides. Annual loadings normalized to the landscape areas of selected Chesapeake Bay watersheds showed correlations to identifiable source areas, with the highest pesticide yields (g/km2/yr) occurring in eastern shore agricultural landscapes, and the highest PAH yields derived from urban regions.	1	pesticide
12926883	Atrazine and metolachlor in surface runoff under typical rainfall conditions in southern Louisiana.	Atrazine and metolachlor are commonly detected in surface water bodies in southern Louisiana. These herbicides are frequently applied in combination to corn, and atrazine to sugarcane, in this region. A study was conducted on the runoff of atrazine and metolachlor from 0.21 ha plots planted to corn on Commerce silt loam, a Mississippi River alluvial soil. The study, carried out over a three-year period characterized by rainfall close to the 30-year average, provided data on persistence in the surface soil (top 2.5 cm layer) and in the runoff active zone of the soil, as measured by decrease in runoff concentrations with time after application. Regression equations were developed that allow an estimate of the runoff extraction coefficients for each herbicide. Atrazine showed soil half-lives in the range 10.5-17.3 days, and metolachlor exhibited half-lives from 15.8-28.0 days. Concentrations in successive runoff events declined much faster than those in the surface soil layer: Atrazine runoff concentrations decreased over successive runoff events with a half-life from 0.6 to 5.7 days, and metolachlor in runoff was characterized by half-lives of 0.6-6.4 days. That is, half-lives of the two herbicides in the runoff-active zone were one-tenth to one-half as long as the respective half-lives in the surface soil layer. Within years, the half-lives of these herbicides in the runoff active zone varied from two-thirds longer for metolachlor in 1996 to one-fifth longer for atrazine in 1995. The equations relating runoff concentrations of atrazine and metolachlor to soil concentrations contain extraction coefficients of 0.009. Losses in runoff for atrazine were 5.2-10.8% of applied, and for metolachlor they were 3.7-8.0%; atrazine losses in runoff were 20-40% higher than those for metolachlor. These relatively high percent of application losses indicate the importance of practices that reduce runoff of these chemicals from alluvial soils of southern Louisiana.	1	pesticide
12933327	Acute toxicity of synthetic pyrethroid cypermethrin to freshwater catfish Heteropneustes fossilis (Bloch).	Lethal concentrations of cypermethrin, dissolved either in water or acetone, were determined for freshwater catfish Heteropneustes fossilis at different hours of exposure by static bioassays. Up to 48 hours, there was no difference between LC(50) values of aqueous and acetone solublized cypermethrin. Seventy-two-hour LC(50) values of aqueous cypermethrin and acetone solublized cypermethrin to H. fossilis were 0.67 and 1.27 microg/L, respectively. Lethal values remained unchanged beyond 72 hours. The fish exposed to even lower concentration of cypermethrin (0.5 microg/L) showed hyperactivity.	1	pesticide
12959522	Growth and nitrite and nitrous oxide accumulation of Paracoccus denitrificans ATCC 19367 in the presence of selected pesticides.	The effects of the application of eight pesticides (aldrin, lindane, dimetoate, methylparathion, methidation, atrazine, simazine, and captan) on growth, respiratory activity (as CO2 production), denitrifying activity (as N2O released), and nitrite accumulation in the culture medium by Paracoccus denitrificans strain ATCC 19367 were studied. The fungicide captan totally inhibited growth and biological activity of P. denitrificans, while the rest of the tested pesticides delayed the growth and CO2 release of P. denitrificans but did not drastically affect the bacterial growth or respiratory capacity after 96 h of culture. The denitrifying activity of P. denitrificans ATCC 19367 (as N2O released) was negatively affected by all tested pesticides. The release of N2O was strongly inhibited by several organochlorinated and organophosphorated insecticides (aldrin, lindane, dimetoate, and methidation), which led to high accumulation of nitrite in the surrounding medium. Atrazine decreased N2O release after 48 h of culture because of negative effects on growth, and methylparathion and simazine delayed the onset of N2O release by P. denitrificans. These three pesticides reduced the accumulation of NO2- compared to unamended control cultures.	1	pesticide
12971519	Insecticide susceptibility tests of Anopheles minimus s.l., Aedes aegypti, Aedes albopictus, and Culex quinquefasciatus in northern Thailand.	The susceptibility of Anopheles minimus s.l., Aedes aegypti, Ae. albopictus, and Culex quinquefasciatus to insecticide in northern Thailand was monitored by using the WHO standard susceptibility test. One- to two-day old female mosquitos, which were reared from wild caught females or immature stages, were exposed to discriminating dosages of insecticides for recommended exposure periods, and the 24-hour mortality recorded. The results revealed that, in general, An. minimus s.l. was still susceptible to DDT and permethrin, except in some areas where a slight increase in tolerance to DDT was observed. Ae. aegypti and Ae. albopictus were both highly resistant to DDT, but in some areas the former was also resistant to permethrin and deltamethrin. Cx. quinquefasciatus was resistant to DDT and etofenprox, with a slight increase in tolerance to permethrin, deltamethrin, malathion and fenitrothion. No resistance to lambda-cyhalothrin was detected in any of the species studied.	1	pesticide
12974354	Correlations of the electrophysiological activity of neonicotinoids with their binding and insecticidal activities.	The electrophysiological actions of various neonicotinoids, including substituted benzyl derivatives, against recombinant Drosophila SAD/chicken beta2 hybrid nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) were measured to analyze the relationships between the in vivo (insecticidal) and in vitro (binding and agonist) activities. Most of the neonicotinoids tested were capable of inducing inward currents by activating the hybrid nAChRs expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes, whereas some compounds had no agonist activity and only blocked the acetylcholine-induced currents. Variations in the agonist activity were well correlated with those in the binding potency evaluated using [3H]imidacloprid as well as insecticidal activities.	1	pesticide
13993107	Assessment of the residual toxicity to Anopheles gambiae of the organophosphorus insecticides Malathion and Baytex.	As part of a WHO programme to evaluate possible substitutes for the chlorinated hydrocarbons to which anopheline mosquitos in many countries have become resistant, two organophosphorus insecticides, malathion and Baytex, were tested as residual sprays on various types of surface against Anopheles gambiae adults in experimental huts at Magugu in Tanganyika. The long-lasting toxicity of both insecticides on relatively impervious surfaces was confirmed, but-as is the case with the chlorinated hydrocarbons-shorter persistence was obtained on sorptive surfaces. As most of the mosquitos rested on the roof, its surface was of much greater importance than the wall surface in determining kill; trials with naturally entering mosquitos indicated that where the roof was of grass malathion was to be preferred to Baytex. Observations confirmed that control huts attracted far more mosquitos than the treated huts and that the insecticide vapour apparently masked the human odour.	1	pesticide
14502587	Comparative toxicity and biochemical responses of certain pesticides to the mature earthworm Aporrectodea caliginosa under laboratory conditions.	This study was conducted to investigate the toxicity of aldicarb, cypermethrin, profenofos, chlorfluazuron, atrazine, and metalaxyl toward mature Aporrectodea caliginosa earthworms. The effects of the LC(25) values of these pesticides on the growth rate in relation to glucose, soluble protein, and activities of glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT), glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (GPT), acid phosphatase (AcP), and alkaline phosphatase (AIP) were also studied. The results showed that aldicarb was the most toxic of the tested pesticides, followed in order by cypermethrin, profenofos, chlorfluazuron, atrazine, and metalaxyl. A reduction in growth rate was observed in all pesticide-treated worms, which was accompanied by a decrease in soluble protein and an increase in transaminases and phosphatases. Relationships between growth rate, protein content, transaminases, and phosphatases provided strong evidence for the involvement of pesticidal contamination in the biochemical changes in earthworms, which can be used as a bioindicator of soil contamination by pesticides.	1	pesticide
14503577	Biological and chemical control of the Asiatic garden beetle, Maladera castanea (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae).	The efficacy of chemical and biological control agents against larvae of the Asiatic garden beetle, Maladera castanea (Arrow), in turfgrass under laboratory, greenhouse, and field conditions were determined. In field trials where insecticides were applied preventively against eggs and young larvae, the molt-accelerating compound halofenozide and the neonicotinoids imidacloprid and thiamethoxam were ineffective, whereas another neonicotinoid, clothianidin, provided 62-93% control. In greenhouse experiments against third instars in pots, the carbamate insecticide carbaryl was ineffective, whereas the organophosphate trichlorfon provided 71-83% control. In laboratory, greenhouse, and field experiments, the entomopathogenic nematode Heterorhabditis bacteriophora Poinar and Steinernema glaseri Steiner (not tested in the field) were ineffective against third instars, whereas S. scarabaei Stock & Koppenhöfer provided excellent control. In microplot field experiments at a rate of 2.5 x 10(9) infective juveniles per ha, H. bacteriophora provided 12-33% control and S. scarabaei 71-86% control. Combinations of S. scarabaei and imidacloprid did not provide more control of third instars compared with S. scarabaei alone.	1	pesticide
14503595	Comparative susceptibilities of diamondback moth (Lepidoptera: Plutellidae) and cabbage looper (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) from Minnesota and south Texas to lambda-cyhalothrin and indoxacarb.	The susceptibility of early instars of diamondback moth, Plutella xylostella (L.), and early (first and second) and late instars (third and fourth) of cabbage looper, Trichoplusia ni (Hübner), from Minnesota and south Texas, to indoxacarb and lambda-cyhalothrin was determined in the laboratory. Susceptibilities of the two species from the two geographical locations to indoxacarb and lambda-cyhalothrin varied greatly. P. xylostella from Minnesota was as susceptible to indoxacarb as those from south Texas, whereas both early and late instar T. ni from south Texas were significantly more tolerant to indoxacarb than those from Minnesota. The LC50 values of indoxacarb for early and later instar T. ni at 48 h from south Texas were 4.3- and 34.0-fold greater than those from Minnesota, respectively. Similarly, early instar P. xylostella and late instar T. ni from south Texas were significantly less susceptible to lambda-cyhalothrin than those from Minnesota. Percentage mortality of the two insect species caused by the two insecticides varied with time of exposure and generally exhibited similar patterns of responses to different concentrations for each insecticide.	1	pesticide
14519326	Comparison of the activity of selamectin, fipronil, and imidacloprid against flea larvae (Ctenocephalides felis felis) in vitro.	The activity of selamectin, fipronil and imidacloprid against larval cat fleas (Ctenocephalides felis felis) was evaluated in an in vitro potency assay system. One hundred microliters of each compound at various concentrations in acetone were added to glass vials (1.5 by 3 cm) to which had been previously added 20 mg of sand and 10 mg of flea feces. Vials were then ball milled to allow the acetone to evaporate. Selamectin and fipronil were tested at 0.001, 0.003, 0.005, 0.01, 0.03, 0.05, 0.11, 0.3, and 0.5 microg of active compound per tube. Imidacloprid was tested at 0.01, 0.03, 0.05, 0.1, 0.3, 0.5, 1.0, 3.0, and 5.0 microg of active compound per tube. Thirty first instar C. felis larvae were added to each vial. The number of larvae remaining alive in each vial was determined once daily for 72 h. With selamectin, reductions of >/=93.5% were achieved at 24 h after exposure at doses of >/=0.3 microg. In contrast, at 24 h neither fipronil nor imidacloprid reached 90% reduction, even at the highest doses tested (0.5 microg for fipronil and 5.0 microg for imidacloprid). Selamectin was significantly (P</=0.05) more potent than imidacloprid and fipronil at levels >/=0.03 microg. A similar pattern of activity was observed at both 48 and 72 h, but higher percentages of larvae were killed for each of the compounds as the incubation time increased. At 72 h selamectin was significantly (P</=0.05) more potent than imidacloprid at levels of 0.01-0.1 microg and significantly (P</=0.05) more potent than fipronil at levels of 0.003-0.01 microg. Therefore, selamectin was more potent than either fipronil or imidacloprid in killing flea larvae in this in vitro assay system.	1	pesticide
14587910	Effects of carbaryl on green frog (Rana clamitans) tadpoles: timing of exposure versus multiple exposures.	The majority of studies on pesticide impacts have evaluated the effects of single exposures. However, multiple exposures to a pesticide may be more prevalent. The objective of our study was to determine how multiple exposures versus single exposure at different times during development affected survival to metamorphosis, tadpole survival, tadpole mass, and tadpole developmental stage of green frog (Rana clamitans) tadpoles reared at low and high density in outdoor cattle tank ponds. Tadpoles were exposed to carbaryl zero, one, two, or three times at 14-d intervals. We applied single doses of carbaryl at one of three times, specifically during early, mid, or late development. Overall, we found that multiple exposures had a greater impact than single exposures during development. More individuals reached metamorphosis in ponds exposed to multiple doses of carbaryl compared with controls, indicating that the presence of carbaryl stimulated metamorphosis. The presence of carbaryl in the aquatic environment also resulted in more developed tadpoles compared with controls. Tadpoles in control ponds did not reach metamorphosis and were less developed than individuals exposed to carbaryl; this effect indicates that, under ideal conditions, green frogs could overwinter in ponds so that greater size could be attained before metamorphosis in the following spring or summer. Our study demonstrated the importance of including realistic application procedures when evaluating the effects of a pesticide and that multiple exposures to a short-lived pesticide are more likely to affect an amphibian population.	1	pesticide
14596835	An immunoassay for atrazine using tunable immunosorbent.	A novel, simple, economical, and environmentally friendly tunable immunosorbent-based immunoassay for sensitive and selective determination of atrazine is reported. Tunable immunosorbents consisting of a fusion between an elastin-like polypeptide made up of 77 repeating units of the pentapeptide VPGVG and a single-chain Fv of an anti-atrazine antibody were synthesized biologically and purified by temperature-triggered phase transition. A competitive immunoassay based on the competition of atrazine-horseradish peroxidase and atrazine was established with IC(50) and lower detection limit of 0.16 and 0.01 ppb, respectively. Excellent recoveries (mean values ranging between 92 and 104%) were demonstrated in simulated atrazine-contaminated water samples.	1	pesticide
14658506	Cross-resistance to alpha-cypermethrin after xanthotoxin ingestion in Helicoverpa zea (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae).	Cytochrome P450 monooxygenases (P450) are membrane-bound hemoproteins that play important roles in conferring protection against both naturally occurring phytochemicals and synthetic organic insecticides. Despite the potential for common modes of detoxification, cross-resistance between phytochemicals and synthetic organic insecticides has rarely been documented. In this study, we examined the responses of a susceptible strain of corn earworm, Helicoverpa zea (Boddie), a polyphagous noctuid, to exposure by an allelochemical infrequently encountered in its host plants and by an insecticide widely used for control purposes. Within a single generation, survivors of xanthotoxin exposure displayed higher levels of tolerance to alpha-cypermethrin than did unexposed control larvae. The F1 offspring of xanthotoxin-exposed survivors also displayed higher alpha-cypermethrin tolerance than did offspring of unexposed control larvae, suggesting that increased alpha-cypermethrin tolerance after xanthotoxin exposure represents, at least in part, heritable resistance. Administration of piperonyl butoxide, a P450 synergist, demonstrated that resistance to both xanthotoxin and alpha-cypermethrin is P450-mediated. Alpha-cypermethrin-exposed survivors, however, failed to show superior growth on xanthotoxin diets. Assays with control larvae, larvae induced by both xanthotoxin and alpha-cypermethrin, and survivors of LD50 doses of both compounds indicated that H. zea midgut P450s are capable of metabolizing both xanthotoxin and alpha-cypermethrin. Metabolism of each compound is significantly inhibited by the presence of the other compound, suggesting that at least one form of P450 in H. zea midguts degrades both compounds and may constitute the biochemical basis for possible cross-resistance. Compared with control larvae, xanthotoxin- and alpha-cypermethrin-induced larvae displayed 2- to 4-fold higher P450-mediated metabolism of both compounds. However, xanthotoxin- and alpha-cypermethrin-exposed survivors exhibited much higher (2.5- to 11-fold) metabolism of both compounds than did the induced larvae. The metabolism results, like the bioassay results, are consistent with the interpretation that increased alpha-cypermethrin tolerance after xanthotoxin exposure is attributable mainly to heritable resistance.	1	pesticide
14658508	Alterations in esterases are associated with malathion resistance in Habrobracon hebetor (Hymenoptera: Braconidae).	Biochemical mechanisms of malathion resistance were investigated in a malathion-resistant strain of the parasitoid Habrobracon hebetor Say collected from a farm storage in Kansas. General esterase activities were significantly lower in the resistant strain compared with those in a susceptible strain. However, no significant differences were found in activities of malathion specific carboxylesterase (MCE), glutathione S-transferase and cytochrome P450 dependent O-demethylase activities, cytochrome P450 contents, and sensitivity of acetylcholinesterase to inhibition by malaoxon between the 2 strains. Because MCE was not elevated in the resistant strain, the weak malathion resistance in H. hebetor may result from a different mechanism compared with that hypothesized for some insect species in which reduced general esterase activity is accompanied by an elevated MCE. Decreased esterase activity in the resistant strain suggested that null alleles of some esterases were associated with the resistance. Indeed, E1 and E2, major esterases in the susceptible strain, were not present in the resistant strain on polyacrylamide gels that were stained for esterase activity using the model substrate 1-naphthyl acetate. In contrast, the activity of esterase E3 on the gels was much higher in the resistant strain as compared with that of the susceptible strain. These findings indicate that malathion resistance in H. hebetor is associated with both an increased activity of the esterase E3 and null alleles of the esterases E1 and E2.	1	pesticide
14667058	Selection for imidacloprid resistance in Nilaparvata lugens: cross-resistance patterns and possible mechanisms.	A field population of brown planthoppers (Nilaparvata lugens Stål) was collected and selected for imidacloprid resistance in the laboratory. The resistance increased by 11.35 times in 25 generations and the resistance ratio reached 72.83 compared with a laboratory susceptible strain. The selected resistant strain showed obvious cross-resistance to all the acetylcholine receptor targeting insecticides tested (monosultap 1.44-fold, acetamiprid 1.61-fold, imidacloprid homologues JS599 2.46-fold and JS598 3.17-fold), but not to others. Further study demonstrated that TPP and DEM had no synergism on imidacloprid. However, PBO displayed significant synergism in some different strains, and the synergism increased with resistance (S strain 1.20, field population 1.43 and R strain 2.93). PBO synergism to cross-resistant insecticides was also found in the resistant strain (monosultap 1.25, acetamiprid 1.39, JS598 1.94 and JS599 2.02). We concluded that esterase and glutathione S-transferase play little role in imidacloprid detoxification. The increase of the P450-monooxygenases detoxification is an important mechanism for imidacloprid resistance and target resistance may also exist in this species.	1	pesticide
14691213	Chlorpyrifos induces apoptosis in rat cortical neurons that is regulated by a balance between p38 and ERK/JNK MAP kinases.	Chlorpyrifos, an acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor, is a widely used organophosphate pesticide. Recent concern has focused on its neurotoxicity that is not attributable to AChE inhibition. Here, we report that chlorpyrifos and chlorpyrifos-oxon, but not 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol (TCP; the breakdown product of chlorpyrifos and chlorpyrifos-oxon), induce apoptosis in primary cortical neurons cultured from embryonic day 17 or newborn rats. It is generally agreed that chlorpyrifos-oxon is approximately three orders of magnitude more potent than chlorpyrifos in inhibition of brain acetylcholinesterase activity. However, our data demonstrate that chlorpyrifos-oxon is only slightly more potent than chlorpyrifos in inducing apoptosis. This indicates that chlorpyrifos-induced apoptosis may occur independently of AChE inhibition, although AChE activity was not measured in this study. Furthermore, chlorpyrifos activates the ERK1/2 and p38 MAP kinases. Surprisingly, blocking ERK1/2 activation by the MEK inhibitor SL327 caused a small but statistically significant inhibition of apoptosis, while blocking p38 with SB202190 significantly accelerated apoptosis induced by chlorpyrifos. This suggests a pro- and anti-apoptotic role for ERK1/2 and p38, respectively. Although chlorpyrifos did not stimulate total JNK activity, it caused a sustained activation of a sub-pool of JNK in the nucleus and stimulated phosphorylation of c-Jun, a downstream target of JNK. Transient expression of a dominant negative c-Jun mutant inhibited chlorpyrifos-induced apoptosis, suggesting a role for JNK and JNK-mediated transcription in this cell death. Together, our data suggest apoptosis as a novel toxic endpoint of chlorpyrifos neurotoxicity in the brain that may be independent of AChE inhibition. Furthermore, activation of the ERK1/2 and JNK MAP kinases contributes to, while activation of the p38 MAP kinase counteracts chlorpyrifos-induced apoptosis in cortical neurons.	1	pesticide
14695572	Chiral iridium [corrected] xyliphos complexes for the catalytic imine hydrogenation leading to the metolachlor herbicide: isolation of catalyst-substrate adducts.	Iridium complexes relevant to the catalytic enantioselective hydrogenation of 2-methyl-6-ethylphenyl-1'-methyl-2'-methoxyethylimine (MEA-imine, 1) in the Syngenta Metolachlor (3) process were prepared and characterized. Reaction of the diphosphane (S)-1-[(R)-2-(diphenylphosphanyl)ferrocenyl]ethyldi(3,5-xylyl)phosphane ((S)-(R)-Xyliphos, (S)-(R)-4) with [Ir(2)(micro-Cl)(2)(cod)(2)] (cod=1,5-cyclooctadiene) afforded [Ir(Cl)(cod)[(S)-(R)-4]] (7), which reacted with AgBF(4) to form [Ir(cod)[(S)-(R)-4]]BF(4) (8). Complexes 7 and 8 reacted with iodide to yield [Ir(I)(cod)[(S)-(R)-4]] (9). When 9 was treated with one and two equivalents of HBF(4), two isomers of the cationic Ir(III) iodo hydrido complex [Ir(I)(H)(cod)[(S)-(R)-4]]BF(4) were solated (10 and 11, respectively). Complex 9 was oxidized with one equivalent of I(2) to give the iodo-bridged dinuclear species [Ir(2)I(2)(micro-I)(3)[(S)-(R)-4](2))]I (12). [Ir(2)(micro-Cl)(2)(coe)(4)] (coe=cyclooctene) reacted with (S)-(R)-4 to yield the chloro-bridged dinuclear complex [Ir(2)(micro-Cl)(2)[(S)-(R)-4](2)] (13). Complexes 7-12 were structurally characterized by single-crystal X-ray diffraction and tested as single-component catalyst precursors for enantioselective hydrogenation of MEA-imine. Complex 10 and dinuclear complex 12 gave the best catalytic results. Efforts were also directed at isolating substrate- or product-catalyst adducts: Treatment of 8 with 2,6-dimethylphenyl-1'-methyl-2'-methoxyethylimine (DMA-imine, 14, a model for 1) under H(2) allowed four isomers of [Ir(H)(2)[(S)-(R)-4](14)]BF(4) (18-21) to be isolated. These analytically pure isomers were fully characterized by 2D NMR techniques. X-ray structural analysis of an Ir(I)-imine adduct, namely, [Ir(C(2)H(4))(2)(14)]BF(4) (25), which was prepared by reacting [IrCl(C(2)H(4))(4)] with [Ag(14)(2)]BF(4) (16), confirmed the kappa(2) coordination mode of imine 14.	1	pesticide
14700526	Synergistic DNA damage by oxidative stress (induced by H2O2) and nongenotoxic environmental chemicals in human fibroblasts.	Genotoxic combination effects of oxidative stress (induced by H2O2) and eight nongenotoxic environmental chemicals (4-chloroaniline, 2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol, lindane, 2,4-dichloroacetic acid (2,4-D), m-xylene, glyphosate, nitrilotriacetic acid and n-hexanol) were determined in human fibroblasts. Genotoxicity was measured quantitatively by the single cell gel electrophoresis assay. The nongenotoxic chemicals were used in non cytotoxic concentrations. H2O2 was used in concentrations producing low (50 microM) and no cytotoxicity (40 microM). All environmental chemicals acted in a synergistic way with H2O2 except DMSO which effectively inhibited H2O(2)-induced DNA damage. The most effective enhancers were 4-chloroaniline, 2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol, m-xylene, and n-hexanol. Synergistic effects of hexanol/H2O2 were still evident at a concentration of 0.09 noec (no observed effect concentration). In contrast to synergistic DNA damage in the cell antagonism was found measuring DNA breakage in isolated PM2 DNA. From the results we concluded that synergisms between H2O2 and nongenotoxic chemicals may be a general phenomenon which is not observed on the level of isolated DNA.	1	pesticide
14727741	Biotransformation of atrazine in transgenic tobacco cell culture expressing human P450.	Plant cell cultures in which the appropriate P450 cDNA is introduced are expected to metabolise certain pesticides in large quantities. Two species of human P450 (CYP1A1 and CYP1A2) were introduced into tobacco cells (Nicotiana tabacum L) by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The transgenic plant cell cultures were selected by combination of kanamycin-resistance, 7-ethoxycoumarin O-de-ethylase activity, PCR and Western blot analysis. For metabolism studies, 14C-labelled atrazine was used as a model substance. The metabolites de-ethylatrazine and de-isopropylatrazine were found in the control culture as well as in the transgenic culture, whereas the non-phytotoxic metabolite de-ethyl-de-isopropylatrazine was found only in the transgenic cell cultures. The results showed that both foreign enzymes CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 catalyse N-dealkylation of atrazine. However, CYP1A2 exhibited a higher conversion rate than CYP1A1. In a time-course study the enzyme CYP1A2 catalysed predominantly N-de-ethylation followed by de-isopropylation. The extent of metabolism was considerably higher than in non-transformed cell cultures. The transgenic cell cultures can therefore be suitable tools for the production of large quantities of primary oxidised pesticide metabolites.	1	pesticide
14736421	Immuno-SLM-a combined sample handling and analytical technique.	"Immuno-supported liquid membrane (immuno-SLM) extraction is a new technique that makes use of antibody (Ab)-antigen interactions as the ""extraction force"" to drive the mass transfer in a selective way. In immuno-SLM, anti-analyte (Ag) Abs are introduced into the acceptor phase of the SLM unit to trap the Ag that passes from the flowing donor through the SLM into the stagnant acceptor. The amount of immuno-extracted analyte (AbAg) is quantified by connecting the immuno-SLM unit on-line with a non-competitive heterogeneous fluorescence flow immunoassay (FFIA) that makes use of a fluorescein-labeled analyte tracer that titrates the residual excess of Ab present in the acceptor. A restricted access (RA) column is used for the separation of the two tracer fractions (Ag* and AbAg*) formed, and the eluted AbAg* fraction is measured downstream by a fluorescence detector. Factors influencing the optimum immuno-SLM extraction parameters, i.e., donor flow rate, extraction time and type of Ab, were investigated for immuno extraction of the model analyte atrazine. Immuno-SLM coupled to FFIA (immuno-SLM-FFIA) and FFIA alone were compared in terms of the assay sensitivities obtained and the sample matrix influence. The concentration at the mid-point of the calibration curve (IC(50)) was 16.0+/-1.4 and 36+/-16 microg/l, the limit of detection (LOD) was 2.0+/-1.1 and 20+/-10 microg/l, and the dynamic range was 2-100 and 20-500 microg/l atrazine for immuno-SLM-FFIA and FFIA, respectively. The matrix influence on the FFIA was significant in orange juice and surface water, whereas the influence was minor for immuno-SLM-FFIA with recoveries between 104% and 115% for 5 microg/l atrazine in tap water, orange juice and river water."	1	pesticide
14753779	High-performance liquid chromatographic-nuclear magnetic resonance investigation of the isomerization of alachlor-ethanesulfonic acid.	The metabolism of the acetanilide herbicide alachlor in soils leads to the formation of alachlor-ethanesulfonic acid (alachlor-ESA) as one of the major transformation products of this compound. The unique structure of alachlor and its metabolites allows the formation of two diastereomers (s-trans and s-cis) due to the hindered rotation of the amide bond connected to a rigid aromatic ring. Although these stereoisomers do interconvert by rotation about the amide bond, the rate of interconversion is slow allowing separation of the isomers on the chromatographic time scale. Once separated, the unique nuclear magnetic resonance signals of each isomer can be used to monitor the rate of isomerization. This paper reports the on-line separation and detection of the rotational diastereomers using high-performance liquid chromatography-nuclear magnetic resonance (HPLC-NMR) to efficiently measure the isomerization rate of alachlor-ESA.	1	pesticide
14754571	Developmental effects of chlorpyrifos extend beyond neurotoxicity: critical periods for immediate and delayed-onset effects on cardiac and hepatic cell signaling.	The fetal and neonatal neurotoxicity of chlorpyrifos (CPF) and related insecticides is a major concern. Developmental effects of CPF involve mechanisms over and above cholinesterase inhibition, notably events in cell signaling that are shared by nonneural targets. In the present study, we evaluated the immediate and long-term effects of CPF exposure of rats during different developmental windows [gestational days (GD) 9-12 or 17-20, postnatal days (PN) 1-4 or 11-14] on the adenylyl cyclase (AC) signaling cascade in the heart and liver. In addition to basal AC activity, we assessed the responses to direct AC stimulants (forskolin, Mn2+); to isoproterenol and glucagon, which activate signaling through specific membrane receptors; and to sodium fluoride, which activates the G-proteins that couple the receptors to AC. Few immediate effects on AC were apparent when CPF doses remained below the threshold for systemic toxicity. Nevertheless, CPF exposures on GD9-12, GD17-20, or PN1-4 elicited sex-selective effects that emerged by adulthood (PN60), whereas later exposure (PN11-14) elicited smaller, nonsignificant effects, indicative of closure of the window of vulnerability. Most of the effects were heterologous, involving signaling elements downstream from the receptors, and thus were shared by multiple inputs; superimposed on this basic pattern, there were also selective alterations in receptor-mediated responses. These results suggest that the developmental toxicity of CPF extends beyond the nervous system, to include cell signaling cascades that are vital to cardiac and hepatic homeostasis. Future work needs to address the potential implications of these effects for cardiovascular and metabolic disorders that may emerge long after the end of CPF exposure.	1	pesticide
14761699	Recovery of acetylcholine esterase activity of Drawida willsi (Oligochaeta) following application of three pesticides to soil.	The recovery of acetylcholine esterase (AChE) activity of a dominant crop field earthworm (Drawida willsi, Michaelsen) was investigated under laboratory conditions following the application of two recommended agricultural (single and double) doses of butachlor (1.1 and 2.2 mga.i.kg(-1) dry soil), malathion (2.2 and 4.4 mga.i.kg(-1) dry soil) and carbofuran (1.1 and 2.2 mga.i.kg(-1) dry soil) to the soil. A sharp decline in the AChE activity of D. willsi was observed up to 9 and 12 days following treatment of carbofuran and malathion in both single and double doses, respectively, whereas very little inhibition was noticed in case of butachlor. D. willsi worms took 45 and 75 days to resume normal AChE activity after exposure to both single and double doses of malathion and carbofuran, respectively. Earlier [Soil Biol. Biochem. 31 (1999) 363-366], [Ph.D. thesis, Sambalpur University, Orissa, India, 2003] and [Pedobiologia (spl. issue), in press] reported that D. willsi takes 75-90 days and 90-105 days to resume normal growth and reproduction following application of both single and double agricultural doses of malathion and carbofuran, respectively. On the basis of the present and previous studies, we strongly suggest that the time gap between the first and second application of malathion, irrespective of single and double dosage, should be at least 90 days, whereas it should be at least 105 days for carbofuran. Butachlor was found to be very toxic, suppressing growth, sexual maturation and cocoon production of D. willsi at both single and double doses [Ph.D. thesis, Sambalpur University, Orissa, India, 2003]. We therefore suggest that application of organochlorine pesticides like butachlor should be avoided as far as possible to ensure maintenance of good soil health.	1	pesticide
14769460	Characterization of a novel carbofuran degrading Pseudomonas sp. with collateral biocontrol and plant growth promoting potential.	The isolate NJ-101 obtained from agricultural soil was characterized and presumptively identified as Pseudomonas sp. The isolate exhibited efficient degradation of the insecticide carbofuran with a rate constant of 0.035 day(-1), following first-order rate kinetics. The ability of performing multifarious biological activities in tandem suggested the uniqueness of isolate NJ-101. The ability to produce hydrogen cyanide and siderophore stipulated its role in biological control. Furthermore, the growth inhibition of Fusarium sp. validated the antagonistic activity of NJ-101 against the common phytopathogens. Concurrent production of indole acetic acid, and solubilization of inorganic phosphate revealed its plant growth promoting potential. Thus, the innate capability of this novel isolate for parallel biodegradation, biocontrol and plant growth promotion has significance in management of the agro-environmental and phytopathological problems.	1	pesticide
14969524	Determination of enantiomers of synthetic pyrethroids in water by solid phase microextraction - enantioselective gas chromatography.	Solid phase microextraction (SPME) is an ideal sample preparation technique because of its speed and solvent-free features. Sampling by SPME is selective and only the dissolved concentration is measured, which allows measurement of the bioavailable fraction of a contaminant in aqueous media. One potential application of SPME is for analysis of enantiomers of chiral contaminants in environmental samples. In this study, a method was developed for determining enantiomers of (Z)-cis-bifenthrin and cis-permethrin in water using coupled SPME and enantioselective gas chromatography (GC). Following SPME sampling, enantiomers of (Z)-cis-bifenthrin and cis-permethrin were separated at the baseline on a beta-cyclodextrin-based enantioselective column, and analyte enrichment onto the SPME fiber was not enantioselective. The GC response increased as sampling time was increased from 0 to 240 min, and as sampling temperature was increased from 20 to 40 degrees C. Organic solvents such as methanol, acetone, and acetonitrile enhanced, while soil extracts slightly decreased, the GC response. The integrated SPME-enantioselective GC method was used to analyze surface runoff samples. The analysis showed preferential degradation of the 1S-3S enantiomer over the 1R-3R enantiomer for both (Z)-cis-bifenthrin and cis-permethrin. The concentrations detected by SPME-GC were substantially smaller than those determined following solvent extraction, suggesting that SPME-enantioselective GC analysis selectively measured the dissolved fraction.	1	pesticide
14980466	Contaminants in molting long-tailed ducks and nesting common eiders in the Beaufort Sea.	In 2000, we collected blood from long-tailed ducks (Clangula hyemalis) and blood and eggs from common eiders (Somateria mollissima) at near-shore islands in the vicinity of Prudhoe Bay, Alaska, and at a reference area east of Prudhoe Bay. Blood was analyzed for trace elements and egg contents were analyzed for trace elements, organochlorine pesticides, polychlorinated biphenyls, and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. Except for Se (mean=36.1 microg/g dry weight (dw) in common eiders and 48.8 microg/g dw in long-tailed ducks), concentrations of trace elements in blood were low and, although several trace elements differed between areas, they were not consistently higher at one location. In long-tailed ducks, Se in blood was positively correlated with activities of two serum enzymes, suggestive of an adverse effect of increasing Se levels on the liver. Although common eiders had high Se concentrations in their blood, Se residues in eggs were low (mean=2.28 microg/g dw). Strontium and Ni were higher in eggs near Prudhoe Bay than at the reference area, but none of the other trace elements or organic contaminants in eggs differed between locations. Concentrations of Ca, Sr, Mg, and Ni differed among eggs having no visible development, early-stage embryos, or late-stage embryos. Residues of 4,4'-DDE, cis-nonachlor, dieldrin, hexachlorobenzene, oxychlordane, and trans-nonachlor were found in 100% of the common eider eggs, but at low concentrations (means of 2.35-7.45 microg/kg wet weight (ww)). The mean total PCB concentration in eggs was 15.12 microg/kg ww. Of PAHs tested for, residues of 1- and 2-methylnaphthalene and naphthalene were found in 100% of the eggs, at mean concentrations of 0.36-0.89 microg/kg ww.	1	pesticide
14992470	Ring-testing and field-validation of a terrestrial model ecosystem (TME)--an instrument for testing potentially harmful substances: effects of carbendazim on soil microbial parameters.	The effects of carbendazim on substrate induced respiration (SIR), dehydrogenase activity (DHA), phosphatase activity and thymidine incorporation by bacteria were evaluated in an experiment with an open intact Terrestrial Model Ecosystem (TME) and in a simultaneous field-validation study. Experiments were performed on four different European soils in Germany, The Netherlands, United Kingdom and Portugal. Data analysis focused on (i) detecting differences between experiments, especially in control values, (ii) checking similarity in data variability at each treatment level between experiments and (iii) analysing the resemblance of response to the model chemical in both experiments. Results obtained showed that control values from TME experiments were similar to those obtained on the respective field site, in most of the comparisons made for SIR, DHA and thymidine incorporation. Phosphatase activity revealed more differences, but values of both experiments had the same order of magnitude. At least part of the variation could be explained from the correlation of the microbial parameters with soil moisture content. Comparisons on data variability also revealed the absence of significant differences between experiments in all parameters in most cases, indicating that TMEs were able to represent the spatial variability found in the field. Effects of carbendazim, when occurring, were observed at treatment levels exceeding the highest recommended application rate of 0.36 kg a.i./ha. Effects on SIR and DHA were observed early in time, but effects on phosphatase activity and thymidine incorporation rate were found 8 or 16 weeks after chemical application. These effects were mild, and rarely a 50% inhibition on any of these parameters was seen at carbendazim dosages up to 87.5 kg a.i./ha. The response to the model chemical in TMEs and field plots was similar in most cases. These results give promising prospects for the use of TMEs as an integrative tool in higher tier levels of different assessment schemes.	1	pesticide
14995094	Development of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for the pyrethroid cypermethrin.	A competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the detection of cypermethrin was developed. Two haptens, the trans- and cis-isomers of 3-[(+/-)-cyano-3-(2,2-dichloroethenyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarbonyloxy]methyl]phenoxyacetic acid, were conjugated with thyroglobulin as immunogens. Four antisera were generated and screened against six different coating antigens. The assay that was the most sensitive for cypermethrin was optimized and characterized. The IC(50) for cypermethrin was 13.5 +/- 4.3 microg/L, and the lower detection limit (LDL) was 1.3 +/- 0.5 microg/L. This ELISA had relatively low cross-reactivities with other major pyrethroids, such as deltamethrin, phenothrin, resmethrin, fluvalinate, and permethrin. Methanol was found to be the best organic cosolvent for this ELISA, with an optimal sensitivity observed at a concentration of 40% (v/v). The assay parameters were unchanged at pH values between 5.0 and 8.0, whereas higher ionic strengths strongly suppressed the absorbances. To increase the sensitivity of the overall method, a C(18) sorbent-based solid-phase extraction was applied to various domestic and environmental water samples. The water samples, fortified with cypermethrin, were analyzed according to this method. Good recoveries and correlation with spike levels were observed.	1	pesticide
15031006	Pesticides in shallow groundwater of Bahawalnagar, Muzafargarh, D.G. Khan and Rajan Pur districts of Punjab, Pakistan.	In Pakistan there is little data on environmental contamination of rural water sources by pesticides. This study evaluated pesticide contamination of groundwater in four intensive cotton growing districts. Water samples were collected from 37 rural open wells in the areas of Bahwalnagar, Muzafargarh, D.G. Khan and Rajan Pur districts of Punjab and analysed for eight pesticides which are mostly used. Information on types of pesticide used and distance to nearest pesticide mixing area and application areas was obtained for each site. From the eight pesticides analysed, six pesticides were detected in the water samples. Only cypermethrin and cabosulfan were not detected. The percentage of detection of bifenthrin, lambda-cyhalothrin, carbofuran, endosulfan, methyl parathion and monocrotophos was, respectively 13.5%, 5.4%, 59.4%, 8%, 5.4% and 35.1% in July; 16.2%, 13.55%, 43.2%, 8%, N.D. (not detected) and 24.3% in October. Maximum contamination levels (MCLs) established by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for drinking water were not exceeded. The study has shown the need for monitoring pesticide contamination in rural water resources, and the development of drinking water quality standards for specific pesticides in Pakistan. The conclusions and recommendations will be disseminated to senior decision makers in central and local governments, extension agents and farmers.	1	pesticide
15061479	Reactivity of the immunological system of turkeys vaccinated with the Newcastle virus after intoxication with carbaryl.	Research has shown that among pesticides, carbaryl is one of the strongest immunosuppressors for numerous animal species. In this paper, the effect of carbaryl on biochemical parameters and on specific and non-specific immunity in carbaryl-intoxicated birds was determined. The results indicate a significant immunosuppressive effect in turkeys, on almost all the investigated biochemical parameters and on the indices of specific and non-specific immunity. The only exception is a slightly elevated level of total protein and reactivity of T lymphocytes to non-specific mitogen in the group of intoxicated birds.	1	pesticide
15066779	Simultaneous degradation of atrazine and phenol by Pseudomonas sp. strain ADP: effects of toxicity and adaptation.	The strain Pseudomonas sp. strain ADP is able to degrade atrazine as a sole nitrogen source and therefore needs a single source for both carbon and energy for growth. In addition to the typical C source for Pseudomonas, Na(2)-succinate, the strain can also grow with phenol as a carbon source. Phenol is oxidized to catechol by a multicomponent phenol hydroxylase. Catechol is degraded via the ortho pathway using catechol 1,2-dioxygenase. It was possible to stimulate the strain in order to degrade very high concentrations of phenol (1,000 mg/liter) and atrazine (150 mg/liter) simultaneously. With cyanuric acid, the major intermediate of atrazine degradation, as an N source, both the growth rate and the phenol degradation rate were similar to those measured with ammonia as an N source. With atrazine as an N source, the growth rate and the phenol degradation rate were reduced to approximately 35% of those obtained for cyanuric acid. This presents clear evidence that although the first three enzymes of the atrazine degradation pathway are constitutively present, either these enzymes or the uptake of atrazine is the bottleneck that diminishes the growth rate of Pseudomonas sp. strain ADP with atrazine as an N source. Whereas atrazine and cyanuric acid showed no significant toxic effect on the cells, phenol reduces growth and activates or induces typical membrane-adaptive responses known for the genus Pseudomonas. Therefore Pseudomonas sp. strain ADP is an ideal bacterium for the investigation of the regulatory interactions among several catabolic genes and stress response mechanisms during the simultaneous degradation of toxic phenolic compounds and a xenobiotic N source such as atrazine.	1	pesticide
15081779	Regional differences in chemical fate model outcome.	The fate of anthropogenic substances in the environment is increasingly determined using multimedia mass balance models. It is, therefore, critical to fully understand how such models work and what their limitations are. The effects of uncertainty and variation in the chemical properties, discharges, and landscape parameters on model outcome have been examined by other researchers. Here, the role of landscape properties in controlling region-to-region differences in chemical fate is examined. Specifically, regions of Canada and the ChemCAN model are used to explore the region-to-region difference in fate for benzo[a]pyrene, hexachlorobenzene, tetrachloroethylene, alpha-hexachlorocyclohexane, 2,2',5,5'-tetrachlorobiphenyl (PCB 52), and atrazine emitted individually to air, water, and soil. To facilitate the same analysis in other places a description of the model and the methods for obtaining the landscape parameters used here are given. Differences in fate are the unique result of combining the input parameters of chemical properties, emission data, and landscape parameters. While region-to-region differences are small compared to the chemical-to-chemical differences that may span many orders of magnitude for physical-chemical or degradation properties, chemical fate is not the same for regions of differing landscape parameters. It is therefore concluded that the quality of results obtained from regional environmental fate models can be improved by the use of region-specific landscape parameters.	1	pesticide
15091361	Persistent organochlorines in beluga whales (Delphinapterus leucas) from the St Lawrence River estuary--I. Concentrations and patterns of specific PCBs, chlorinated pesticides and polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans.	Blubber samples from beluga whales (Delphinapterus leucas) in the St Lawrence River estuary were analysed for PCB congeners (ortho- and non-ortho-substituted) and other persistent organochlorines as well as chlorinated dibenzo-dioxins/furans (PCDD/Fs). Major individual components (mean concentrations > 1 microg g(-1)) were 4,4'-DDE, -DDD and -DDT, T12 (a toxaphene-related compound), trans-nonachlor, oxychlordane, mirex, HCB, tris(p-chlorophenyl) methane and dieldrin. Concentrations of SigmaPCBs (8.3-412 microg g(-1)), SigmaDDT (3.36-389 microg g(-1)) and mirex (0.18-6.8 microg g(-1)) were particularly elevated relative to other odontocetes in Canadian waters. SigmaDDT, PCBs (as Aroclor), mirex and T12 concentrations were positively correlated with age of adult females (> 10 years) but only weakly, or not significantly, correlated with age of adult males. PCDD/Fs were present at low ng kg(-1) levels and consisted mainly of penta- and hexachlorofurans, and hepta- and octachlorodioxin. CB126 (3,3',4,4',5-PCB) was the most prominent non-ortho-substituted PCB congener in beluga blubber. Total TCDD toxic equivalents averaged 330 ng kg(-1) in females and 1400 ng kg(-1) in males and were dominated by CB126, and the mono-ortho-substituted congeners CB105 and CB118. Biomagnification factors (BMFs) for mirex and SigmaPCB from fish to beluga ranged from 11 to 16, and were similar to BMFs in Arctic animals, indicating that elevated levels in St Lawrence animals are a consequence of relatively high levels of recalcitrant organochlorines in prey of the beluga in the St Lawrence river system.	1	pesticide
15091553	Bioconcentration of chlorpyrifos by the freshwater isopod Asellus aquaticus (L.) in outdoor experimental ditches.	The bioconcentration of the insecticide chlorpyrifos (CPF) [O,O-diethyl-O-(3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridil) phosphorothioate] by the freshwater isopod Asellus aquaticus (L.) was investigated under time-varying exposure conditions in artificial outdoor ditches. The insecticide was applied as a single dose of Dursban 4E trade mark at nominal initial concentrations of the active ingredient of 0.7 and 5.0 microg litre(-1). Toxicokinetic rate constants of CPF were estimated using three methods based on first-order onecompartment modelling. Aqueous concentrations of CPF showed a rapid exponential decrease. Tissue residues of CPF in Asellus, reached maximum values after two days with subsequent relatively rapid elimination in agreement with model predictions. Both uptake and elimination rate constants were dependent upon exposure level, with relatively low uptake and elimination rate constants (10 respectively 5-fold lower) at the high exposure level, which was attributed to toxic stress The time-dependent bioconcentration factor (BCF) of CPF did not show any dependence upon the exposure level, and reached a plateau after 2 days. Lipid-based BCF (1 kg(-1); mean +/- SE) values measured in the low and high treatments were 262 +/- 77 x 10(3) (n = 7) and 235 +/- 44 x 10(3) (n = 6), respectively, and were above ranges previously reported in the literature for fish. The feasibility of using freshwater isopods in biomonitoring programmes to assess the fate and effects of organophosphorus compounds is discussed.	1	pesticide
15091869	Pesticides in rainfall and air in Italy.	The presence of pesticide residues in rain, throughfall, stemflow and in ambient air in two Italian forests affected by the forest damage phenomenon were investigated. Pesticides measured were: alachlor, atrazine, carbaryl, 2,4-D, diazinon, dichlobenil, fluazifop-butyl, MCPA, parathion, phorate and trifluralin. Rainwater samples were collected from May to October 1988 at Vallombrosa and Renon, air and atmospheric particulates were sampled during April-June 1989, only at Vallombrosa. A total of 146 samples of rainfall and 20 samples of ambient air were analysed and 49 out of 166 samples contained at least one active ingredient. Herbicides were more frequent than insecticides, and their concentrations were also higher (max 3.44 microg litre(-1)).	1	pesticide
15092101	Organochlorine pesticide and polychlorinated biphenyl residues in foodstuffs from Bangkok, Thailand.	Raw foodstuffs collected from Bangkok, Thailand, were analysed for the presence of PCBs, DDTs, HCHs (BHCs). HCB, aldrin, dieldrin, heptachlor and heptachlor epoxide. Residues of PCBs and organochlorine pesticides were detected in all the samples analysed. Concentrations of PCBs did not reach the tolerance limit set forth by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The concentrations of SigmaHCH were higher than those of SigmaDDT in all the farm products while the levels of SigmaDDT were greater in fishes including fish flakes and fishmeal. Meat samples recorded higher concentrations of SigmaDDT and dieldrin than SigmaHCH. Comparing the levels of organochlorines in foodstuffs from Bangkok, considerable levels of aldrin and dieldrin indicate the need for concern from the food safety point of view because of their much higher toxicity than DDT and other organochlorines. However, the levels did not exceed the Maximum Residue Limit (MRL) recommended by FAO/WHO. Food contamination by HCB, heptachlor and heptachlor epoxide is comparatively lower.	1	pesticide
15092134	Dissipation of some organochlorine insecticides in cropped and uncropped soil.	Dissipation of four organochlorine insecticides, viz. aldrin, HCH, chlordane and heptachlor was studied in a sandy loam soil with and without crops during a period of 10 cropping seasons. Dissipation of all chemicals followed first-order kinetics (r(2)=0.537 - 0.976) with almost similar persistence in cropped and uncropped soils for all the insecticides. The average half-lives, (t(1/2) values) for total residues of aldrin, HCH, chlordane, and heptachlor in cropped treatments were 80.7, 58.8, 93.2, and 110 days. Their respective values in fallow plots were 78.4, 83.8, 154, and 116 days. None of the parent compounds or their isomers could be detected below the 20 cm depth at the termination of the experiment. Highest residue concentrations were observed in the surface 10 cm layer in fallow plots, but in the deeper (10-20 cm) layer in cropped plots. Analysis of plants and grains showed significant residues of all the chemicals. Degradation of these compounds in cropped and uncropped plots is discussed with regard to their volatilization, microbial degradation, leaching, and plant uptake.	1	pesticide
15092216	Influence of persistence period of an insecticide on recovery patterns of a zooplankton community in experimental ponds.	An insecticide, carbaryl, was applied singly or repeatedly to experimental ponds in order to control the residue of the chemical, and the subsequent changes in the zooplankton community were investigated. In ponds where a single application of carbaryl, which degraded rapidly in the water, was made, cladocerans were reduced, but recovered soon and suppressed rotifers through competition. On the other hand, in ponds receiving repeated chemical applications, the treatment suppressed cladocerans for longer and induced the occurrence of abundant rotifers. The rotifer abundance after the treatment seemed to depend on the persistence period of the chemical. From these findings it can be hypothesized that applications of chemicals which have different degradation rates induce different zooplankton community structures.	1	pesticide
15092418	Effect of some pesticides on in-vitro lipid and protein synthesis by the liver of the freshwater teleost, Channa punctatus (Bl.).	In vitro incorporation of (14)C-glucose/acetate into lipids and (14)C-leucine into proteins by the liver of Channa punctatus, exposed to safe application rate (SAR) and sublethal (SL) concentrations of malathion and carbaryl for 30 days (mid-February to mid-March) during the preparatory phase of the reproductive cycle, declined more in the fish exposed to SL concentrations than to SAR concentrations of the pesticides. The decline in incorporation was more marked in the malathion-exposed fish, than in those exposed to was more marked in the malathion-exposed fish, than in those exposed to carbaryl. Hence, malathion is considered more toxic than carbaryl in inhibiting the de-novo synthesis of lipids and proteins by the liver.	1	pesticide
15105129	Screening for microtubule-disrupting antifungal agents by using a mitotic-arrest mutant of Aspergillus nidulans and novel action of phenylalanine derivatives accompanying tubulin loss.	The microtubule, which is one of the major targets of anthelmintics, anticancer drugs, and fungicides, is composed mainly of alpha- and beta-tubulins. We focused on a unique characteristic of an Aspergillus nidulans benA33 mutant to screen for microtubule-disrupting antifungal agents. This mutant, which has a beta-tubulin with a mutation of a single amino acid, undergoes mitotic arrest due to the formation of hyperstable microtubules at 37 degrees C. The heat sensitivity of the mutant is remedied by some antimicrotubule agents. We found that an agar plate assay with the mutant was able to distinguish three types of microtubule inhibitors. The growth recovery zones of the mutant were formed around paper disks containing microtubule inhibitors, including four benzimidazoles, ansamitocin P-3, griseofulvin, and rhizoxin, on the agar plate at 37 degrees C. Nocodazole, thiabendazole, and griseofulvin reversed the mitotic arrest of the mutant and promoted its hyphal growth. Ansamitocin P-3 and rhizoxin showed growth recovery zones around the growth-inhibitory zones. Benomyl and carbendazim also reversed mitotic arrest but produced weaker growth recovery than the aforementioned drugs. Other microtubule inhibitors, such as colchicine, Colcemid, paclitaxel, podophyllotoxin, TN-16, vinblastine, and vincristine, as well as some cytoskeletal inhibitors tested, did not show such activity. In our screening, we newly identified two mycotoxins, citrinin and patulin, two sesquiterpene dialdehydes, polygodial and warburganal, and four phenylalanine derivatives, arphamenine A, L-2,5-dihydrophenylalanine (DHPA), N-tosyl-L-phenylalanine chloromethylketone, and N-carbobenzoxy-L-phenylalanine chloromethyl ketone. In a wild-type strain of A. nidulans, DHPA caused selective losses of microtubules, as determined by fluorescence microscopy, and of both alpha- and beta-tubulins, as determined by Western blot analysis. This screening method involving the benA33 mutant of A. nidulans is useful, convenient, and highly selective. The phenylalanine derivatives tested are of a novel type of microtubule-disrupting antifungal agents, producing an accompanying loss of tubulins, and are different from well-known tubulin inhibitors affecting the assembly of tubulin dimers into microtubules.	1	pesticide
15123619	Identification, expression, and purification of a pyrethroid-hydrolyzing carboxylesterase from mouse liver microsomes.	Carboxylesterases are enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of a wide range of ester-containing endogenous and xenobiotic compounds. Although the use of pyrethroids is increasing, the specific enzymes involved in the hydrolysis of these insecticides have yet to be identified. A pyrethroid-hydrolyzing enzyme was partially purified from mouse liver microsomes using a fluorescent reporter similar in structure to cypermethrin (Shan, G., and Hammock, B. D. (2001) Anal. Biochem. 299, 54-62 and Wheelock, C. E., Wheelock, A. M., Zhang, R., Stok, J. E., Morisseau, C., Le Valley, S. E., Green, C. E., and Hammock, B. D. (2003) Anal. Biochem. 315, 208-222) and subsequently identified as a carboxylesterase (NCBI accession number BAC36707). The expressed sequence tag was then cloned, expressed in baculovirus, and purified to homogeneity. Kinetic constants for a large number of both type I and type II pyrethroid or pyrethroid-like substrates were determined. This esterase possesses similar kinetic constants for cypermethrin and its fluorescent-surrogate (k(cat) = 0.12 +/- 0.03 versus 0.11 +/- 0.01 s(-1)). Compared with their cis- counterparts, trans-permethrin and cypermethrin were hydrolyzed 22- and 4-fold faster, respectively. Of the four fenvalerate isomers the (2R)(alphaR)-isomer was hydrolyzed at least 1 order of magnitude faster than any other isomer. However, it is unlikely that this enzyme accounts for the total pyrethroid hydrolysis in the microsomes because both isoelectrofocusing and native PAGE indicate the presence of a second region of cypermethrin-metabolizing enzymes. A second carboxylesterase gene (NCBI accession number NM_133960), isolated during a cDNA mouse liver library screening, was also found to hydrolyze pyrethroids. Both these enzymes could be used as preliminary tools in establishing the relative toxicity of new pyrethroids.	1	pesticide
15141104	2,5-hexanedione and carbendazim coexposure synergistically disrupts rat spermatogenesis despite opposing molecular effects on microtubules.	2,5-Hexanedione (2,5-HD), a taxol-like promoter of microtubule assembly, and carbendazim (CBZ), a colchicine-like inhibitor of microtubule assembly, are two environmental testicular toxicants that target and disrupt microtubule function in Sertoli cells. At the molecular level, these two toxicants have opposite effects on microtubule assembly, yet they share the common physiologic effect of inhibiting microtubule-dependent functions of Sertoli cells. By studying a combined exposure to 2,5-HD and CBZ, we sought to determine whether CBZ would antagonize or exacerbate the effects of an initial 2,5-HD exposure. In vitro, 2,5-HD-treated tubulin had a decreased lag time and an increased maximal velocity of microtubule assembly. These 2,5-HD-induced in vitro alterations in microtubule assembly were normalized by CBZ exposure. In vivo, adult male rats were exposed to a 1% solution of 2,5-HD in the drinking water for 2.5 weeks. CBZ was administered by gavage (200 mg/kg body weight) at the same time as unilateral surgical ligation of the efferent ducts, 24 h before evaluation of the testis. Measures of testicular effect (testis weight, histopathologic changes [sloughing and vacuolization], and seminiferous tubule diameters) were all significantly altered with combined exposure. The testicular effects in the combined exposure group were either different (seminiferous tubule diameters), additive (% vacuolization), or greater than additive (% sloughing) compared to the effects of the individual toxicant exposure groups referenced to the controls. Therefore, CBZ coexposure does not antagonize the effects of an initial 2,5-HD exposure, as might be expected if their molecular effects on microtubule assembly were solely responsible for their combined toxicity; instead, 2,5-HD and CBZ act together to exacerbate the testicular injury.	1	pesticide
15149093	A monitoring trap for Diabrotica virgifera virgifera and D. barberi adults lured with a poisoned cucurbitacin bait.	A trap is described that uses as a simple natural ingredient a cucurbitacin mixture to capture and carbaryl insecticide to kill northern and western corn rootworm beetles (Diabrotica barberi Smith and Lawrence, and Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte (D.v.v.), respectively). The trap is consistent in numbers of beetles captured per trap per day, and it should be useful in integrated pest management programs to monitor the population density of rootworm beetles in corn fields. Captures between 1981 and 1983 in Illinois showed that western corn rootworm adults that disperse into first-year cornfields were predominantly females. These traps are being utilized today (2003) by many researchers in the New World desiring to know more about rootworm beetle movement and activities. Entomologists in the Old World confronted with the alien invasive pest D.v.v. should profit likewise from increased knowledge and availability of these traps for Diabrotica management.	1	pesticide
15151307	Activity of some chemicals in the control of Botrytis cinerea on roses.	In the control of grey mould (Botrytis cinerea) on rose petals all 15 tested fungicides used as a spray, suppressed very effectively development of necrosis. But the best results in suppression of necrosis development, more than 90% effectiveness gave: Amistar 250 SC (azoxystrobin), Bravo 500 SC (chlorothalonil), Discus 500 WG (kresoxim methyl), Euparen 50 WP (dichlofluanid) Euparen Multi 50 WG (tolyfluanid), Folpan 80 WG (folpet), Kaptan zaw. 50 WP (captan), Penncozeb 80 WP (mancozeb), Ronilan 50 WP (vinclozolin), Rovral Flo 255 SC (iprudione), Sumilex 500 SC (procymidone) and Teldor 500 SC (fenhexamid). When Dithane M-45 80 WP (mancozeb), Sarbrawit 530 SC (chlorothalonil + carbendazim) or Topsin M 70 WP (thiophanate methyl) were used, the diameter of spots was about 6-times smaller than on control flowers (about 84% effectiveness). All tested fungicides used for spraying of flower petals with abundant visible sporulation of B. cinerea were ineffective in the inhibition of spore germination. But when Petri dishes with potato-dextrose-agar were sprayed with tested fungicides and inoculated with spore suspension, Euparen 50 WP, Euparen Multi 50 WG, Folpan 80 WG, Kaptan zaw. 50 WP and Penncozeb 80 WP completely suppressed conidia germination.	1	pesticide
15154458	Damage loss assessment and control of the cereal leaf beetle (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) in winter wheat.	Cereal leaf beetle, Oulema melanopus (L.), invaded northern Alabama and Georgia more than a decade ago and since has become an economic pest of winter wheat and other cereal crops in the southeastern United States. A series of trials was conducted beginning in 1995 to determine optimal rate and timing of applications of selected foliar insecticides for managing cereal leaf beetle in soft red winter wheat. These trials, cage studies with larvae, and a manual defoliation experiment were used to provide information on cereal leafbeetle yield loss relationships and to develop economic decision rules for cereal leaf beetle in soft red winter wheat. Malathion, methomyl, carbaryl, and spinosad effectively controlled larval infestations when treatments were applied after most eggs had hatched. Encapsulated endotoxin of Bacillus thuringiensis, methyl parathion, and disulfoton applied at the lowest labeled rates were not effective treatments. Organophosphate insecticides generally were not effective when applied before most eggs had hatched. The most effective treatments were the low rates of lambda cyhalothrin when applied early while adults were still laying eggs and before or near 50% egg hatch. These early applications applied at or before spike emergence virtually eliminated cereal leaf beetle injury. The manual defoliation study demonstrated that defoliation before spike emergence has greater impact on grain yield and yield components than defoliation after spike emergence. Furthermore, flag leaf defoliation causes more damage than injury to lower leaves. Grain test weight and kernel weight were not affected by larval injury in most trials. Regression of larval numbers and yield losses calculated a yield loss of 12.65% or 459 kg/ha per larva per stem, which at current application costs suggested an economic threshold of 0.4 larvae per stem during the spike emergence to anthesis stages.	1	pesticide
15178091	An in vitro procedure for evaluation of early stage oxidative stress in an established fish cell line applied to investigation of PHAH and pesticide toxicity.	Oxidative stress by increased production of reactive oxygen species such as superoxide has been implicated in the toxicity of PCB's and non-target toxicity of many pesticides. We report the development of a microplate-based method for determination of early stage oxidative stress using an established cell line (EPC) from a skin tumour of carp Cyprinus carpio L. and 2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate (H(2)-DCFDA) as a fluorescent probe for detection of reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation. Sublethal concentrations of the herbicide Paraquat, an established redox cycling agent and a crude PCB mixture, Arochlor 1254 elicited a linear increase in ROS formation over 2 h exposure which was some 45- and 10-fold higher, respectively, than attributable to basal respiration, confirming the suitability and response of the test system. Whilst in vivo studies in mammals have implicated early stage oxidative stress in the toxicity of pesticides, we did not observe an increase in ROS production after exposure of EPC cells to sublethal concentrations of Carbaryl, 2,4-DDT, Lindane or Malathion implying that this is not the causative mechanism of acute toxicity in this fish cell line. The apparent involvement of oxidative stress in their mammalian toxicity may therefore be an indirect effect or dependent upon compound metabolism.	1	pesticide
15183996	Response of Cyprinus carpio (Linn) to sublethal concentration of cypermethrin: alterations in protein metabolic profiles.	Freshwater fish, Cyprinus carpio were exposed to sublethal concentration (1.2 microg l(-1)) of cypermethrin for 6, 12, 24 and 48 h to analyze various parameters of protein metabolism in functionally different tissues. Total, structural and soluble proteins showed decrement; where as free amino acids and the activities of protease, aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase significantly increased in cypermethrin exposed fish. Interestingly, ammonia content decreased but urea and glutamine increased at all periods of exposure. It was also observed that alterations steadily increased with the period of exposure and exhibited tissue specificity. Thus variation in the protein metabolism of the fish exposed to cypermethrin indicates its toxic effect on the cellular metabolism thereby leading to impaired protein synthetic machinery.	1	pesticide
15189456	Measuring the efficacy of insecticide treated bednets: the use of DNA fingerprinting to increase the accuracy of personal protection estimates in Tanzania.	Summary Insecticide-treated nets have proved successful in the prevention of malaria as a result of both the personal protection with which they provide the sleeper and also the 'mass effect' on the local mosquito population when they are used on a community-wide basis. Personal protection estimates are normally based on comparisons of the numbers of bloodfed mosquitoes found in rooms with and without nets, however it seemed possible that a number of those mosquitoes may not have fed on the occupants of the rooms in which they were found but had entered after feeding elsewhere. To address this possible source of error, we used an 8-locus microsatellite system to identify the source of bloodmeals of Anopheles gambiaes.l. and A. funestus mosquitoes collected in rooms and window traps in Tanzanian villages with and without nets treated with alphacypermethrin. DNA fingerprints were produced from blood samples taken from people who had slept in these rooms and were matched to fingerprints obtained from the mosquito bloodmeals. We were able to type successfully over 90% of the bloodmeals collected and found that proportions of bloodfed mosquitoes that had fed on occupants of the rooms in which they were found were high and only slightly greater in villages without treated nets than those with them (95% and 88%, respectively). When these percentages were used to adjust estimates of personal protection, it was found that the error due to mosquitoes not feeding in the rooms in which they were collected is negligible.	1	pesticide
15198328	Herbicide loss following application to a railway.	Railways have been identified as a potential source of herbicides detected in surface and groundwaters, but there are few data to support this theory. Two studies were undertaken to investigate the fate of herbicides applied to railway trackbeds: a pilot study in a section of a disused, but intact, cutting where runoff and throughflow were sampled from trenches adjacent to the treated area, and a larger scale study on 0.75 km of embankment where surface water from the drainage ditch at the base of the embankment and groundwater were sampled. In the pilot study, peak concentrations of atrazine, diuron and glyphosate (1280, 210 and 15 microg litre(-1) respectively) were detected 6days after treatment (DAT). Oxadiazon, oryzalin and isoxaben were not detected above their limits of quantification. Lower concentrations were detected 81 DAT (10 and 0.8 microg litre(-1) of atrazine and glyphosate respectively). In the larger scale study, herbicides were not detected, in either the surface water or groundwater, at concentrations above the limit of detection that could be attributed to application to the railway. Rainfall volume and depth to sampling point may partly explain the different results obtained from the two studies. The findings are compared with herbicide losses from other 'hard surfaces'.	1	pesticide
15212247	Distribution and toxicity of sediment-associated pesticides in agriculture-dominated water bodies of California's Central Valley.	The agricultural industry and urban pesticide users are increasingly relying upon pyrethroid insecticides and shifting to more potent members of the class, yet little information is available on residues of these substances in aquatic systems under conditions of actual use. Seventy sediment samples were collected over a 10-county area in the agriculture-dominated Central Valley of California, with most sites located in irrigation canals and small creeks dominated by agricultural effluent. The sediments were analyzed for 26 pesticides including five pyrethroids, 20 organochlorines, and one organophosphate. Ten-day sediment toxicity tests were conducted using the amphipod Hyalella azteca and, for some samples, the midge Chironomus tentans. Forty-two percent of the locations sampled caused significant mortality to one test species on at least one occasion. Fourteen percent of the sites (two creeks and four irrigation canals) showed extreme toxicity (>80% mortality) on at least one occasion. Pyrethroid pesticides were detected in 75% of the sediment samples, with permethrin detected most frequently, followed by esfenvalerate > bifenthrin > lambda-cyhalothrin. Based on a toxicity unit analysis, measured pyrethroid concentrations were sufficiently high to have contributed to the toxicity in 40% of samples toxic to C. tentans and nearly 70% of samples toxic to H. azteca. Organochlorine compounds (endrin, endosulfan) may have contributed to the toxicity at a few other sites. This study provides one of the first geographically broad assessments of pyrethroids in areas highly affected by agriculture, and it suggests there is a greater need to examine sediment-associated pesticide residues and their potential for uptake by and toxicity to benthic organisms.	1	pesticide
15225349	Evaluation of Olyset insecticide-treated nets distributed seven years previously in Tanzania.	BACKGROUND: Insecticide-treated nets represent currently a key malaria control strategy, but low insecticide re-treatment rates remain problematic. Olyset nets are currently one of two long-lasting insecticidal nets recommended by WHO. An assessment was carried out of the effect of Olyset nets after seven years of use in rural Tanzania. METHODS: A survey of Olyset nets was conducted in two Tanzanian villages to examine their insecticide dosage, bioassay efficacy and desirability compared with ordinary polyester nets. RESULTS: Of 103 randomly selected nets distributed in 1994 to 1995, 100 could be traced. Most nets were in a condition likely to offer protection against mosquito biting. Villagers appreciated mainly the durability of Olyset trade mark nets and insecticide persistence. People disliked the small size of these nets and the light blue colour and preferred a smaller mesh size, features that can easily be modified. At equal price, 51% said they would prefer to buy an Olyset net and 49% opted for an ordinary polyester net. The average permethrin content was 33%-41% of the initial insecticide dose of 20,000 mg/Kg. Bioassay results indicated high knock-down rates at 60 minutes, but the mosquito mortality after 24 hours was rather low (mean: 34%). No significant correlation was found between bioassay results and insecticide concentration in and on the net. CONCLUSIONS: Olyset nets are popular, durable and with a much longer insecticide persistence than ordinary polyester nets. Hence, Olyset nets are one of the best choices for ITN programmes in rural malaria-endemic areas.	1	pesticide
15253053	Avian mortality events in the United States caused by anticholinesterase pesticides: a retrospective summary of National Wildlife Health Center records from 1980 to 2000.	We reviewed the U.S. Geological Survey National Wildlife Health Center (NWHC) mortality database from 1980 to 2000 to identify cases of poisoning caused by organophosphorus and carbamate pesticides. From the 35,022 cases from which one or more avian carcasses were submitted to the NWHC for necropsy, we identified 335 mortality events attributed to anticholinesterase poisoning, 119 of which have been included in earlier reports. Poisoning events were classified as confirmed (n = 205) when supported by findings of > or =50% inhibition of cholinesterase (ChE) activity in brain tissue and the detection of a specific pesticide in the gastrointestinal contents of one or more carcasses. Suspected poisonings (n = 130) were defined as cases where brain ChE activity was > or =50% inhibited or a specific pesticide was identified in gastrointestinal contents. The 335 avian mortality events occurred in 42 states. Washington, Virginia, and Ohio had the highest frequency of events, with 24 (7.2%), 21 (6.3%), and 20 (6.0%) events, respectively. A total of 8877 carcasses of 103 avian species in 12 orders was recovered. Because carcass counts underestimate total mortality, this represents the minimum actual mortality. Of 24 different pesticides identified, the most frequent were famphur (n = 59: 18%), carbofuran (n = 52; 15%), diazinon (n = 40; 12%), and fenthion (n = 17; 5.1%). Falconiformes were reported killed most frequently (49% of all die-offs) but Anseriformes were found dead in the greatest numbers (64% of 8877 found dead). The majority of birds reported killed by famphur were Passeriformes and Falconiformes, with the latter found dead in 90% of famphur-related poisoning events. Carbofuran and famphur were involved in mortality of the greatest variety of species (45 and 33, respectively). Most of the mortality events caused by diazinon involved waterfowl.	1	pesticide
15279255	Effects of greenhouse pesticides on the soil-dwelling predatory mite Stratiolaelaps scimitus (Acari: Mesostigmata: Laelapidae) under laboratory conditions.	Knowledge of the effects of pesticides on biological control agents is required for the successful implementation of integrated pest management (IPM) programs in greenhouse production systems. Laboratory assays were conducted to assess the effects of an acaricide (dicofol), two insecticides (chlorpyrifos and pyriproxyfen), and two fungicides (fosetyl-Al and mefenoxam) on Stratiolaelaps scimitus (Womersley), a soil-dwelling predatory mite widely marketed in North America under the name Hypoaspis miles (Berlese) as a biological control agent of dark-winged fungus gnats (Bradysia spp.). Eggs, larvae, protonymphs, deutonymphs, and adult male and female mites were first assayed using dicofol, an acaricide used in the experiments as a positive control, applied to filter paper in an enclosed arena. Protonymphs were assayed for lethal and sublethal effects against the remaining pesticides at maximum label-recommended rates applied to filter paper, by using dicofol as a positive control and water as a negative control. The larva and protonymph were the life stages most susceptible to dicofol, with estimated 24-h LC50 values of 9 and 26 mg m(-2), respectively. Chlorpyrifos was highly toxic to the protonymphs of S. scimitus, causing >95% mortality after 24-h exposure and 100% mortality after 48 h. In contrast, the insect growth regulator (IGR) pyriproxyfen was much less toxic to protonymphs of S. scimitus; pyriproxyfen caused no significant mortality, compared with <5% mortality in the water control. Mortality caused by the fungicides was also relatively low; 72-h exposure to fosetyl-Al and mefenoxam resulted in 17.4 and 27.5% mortality, respectively. The IGR and fungicides increased the duration of the protonymphal stage by 1.2-1.8-fold, but they had no effect on the duration of subsequent life stages, nor on the duration of preoviposition, oviposition, and postoviposition periods of adult females. Total numbers and viability of eggs laid by mites exposed to the IGR and fungicides did not differ from the negative control, although the average rate of egg production during the oviposition of mites exposed to fosetyl-Al was increased. Pyriproxyfen, fosetyl-Al, and mefenoxam are likely to be compatible with S. scimitus under field conditions, because these pesticides caused little mortality of protonymphs, and they did not negatively affect the development and reproduction of S. scimitus under extreme laboratory conditions. In contrast, the use of chlorpyrifos in conjunction with S. scimitus is not recommended unless more comprehensive testing under semifield or field conditions demonstrates compatibility.	1	pesticide
15288513	The modulatory effect of pyrethroids on acetylcholine release in the hippocampus of freely moving rats.	The peripheral effects of pyrethroids on Na(+) channels are well known but the effects on CNS neurotransmission are less known. In the present study, type I and II pyrethroids were found to affect the release of acetylcholine (ACh) from hippocampus in freely moving rats as measured by in vivo microdialysis. The basal release of ACh from the hippocampus of untreated rats was 6.6 pmol/10 microl/10 min. Allethrin had an interesting dual effect on ACh release, increasing ACh efflux (to about 300% of baseline) at the lower dose of 20 mg/kg i.p. with a peak time of 60 min and decreasing the efflux (to about 40% of baseline) at the higher dose of 60 mg/kg i.p. up to 3 h after administration. Cyhalothrin 20 and 60 mg/kg i.p. inhibited the release (to about 30% of baseline) dose-dependently, with a peak time of 50-60 min after administration. Deltamethrin 20 mg/kg i.p. increased the efflux (to about 250% of baseline) with a peak time of 30 min after administration and 60 mg/kg i.p. increased the efflux (to about 450% of baseline) and remained at a steady level during the rest of the 3 h experiment. Control vehicle injections had no effect on the efflux of ACh in any of the experiments. This is the first report, using in vivo microdialysis, that pyrethroids modulate the ACh release in the hippocampus of rat brain.	1	pesticide
15328714	Topical flea and tick pesticides and the risk of transitional cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder in Scottish Terriers.	OBJECTIVE: To determine whether use of topical flea and tick products increases the risk of transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the urinary bladder in Scottish Terriers. DESIGN: Case-control study. ANIMALS: 87 adult Scottish Terriers with TCC (cases) and 83 adult Scottish Terriers with other health-related conditions (controls). PROCEDURE: Owners of study dogs were recruited through private veterinary practices and the Scottish Terrier Club of America. History of exposure to flea and tick products 1 year prior to diagnosis of TCC for case dogs and during a comparable period for control dogs was obtained through a questionnaire. Risk of TCC associated with exposure to flea and tick products was determined by means of univariate and multiple logistic regression analysis. RESULTS: After adjustment for host factors, Scottish Terriers treated with topical spot-on flea and tick products containing fipronil or imidacloprid did not have an increased risk of TCC, compared with Scottish Terriers that had never been exposed to any flea and tick products. The risk of TCC associated with use of older topical flea and tick products such as shampoos, dips, powders, sprays, and collars could not be evaluated because of the low number of owners in the study population that had used such products. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Results suggest that use of topical spot-on flea and tick products does not increase the risk of TCC in Scottish Terriers.	1	pesticide
15352481	Effects of the pesticides captan, deltamethrin, isoproturon, and pirimicarb on the microbial community of a freshwater sediment.	In three microcosm experiments, we exposed microbial communities of a natural sediment to environmentally relevant concentrations of the fungicide captan, the herbicide isoproturon, and the insecticides deltamethrin and pirimicarb. Exposure concentrations were estimated negligible concentrations (NCs), maximum permissible concentrations (MPCs), and 100 times MPC (100MPC). Experimental endpoints were microbial community respiration and biomass, bacterial activity, and denitrification. All four pesticides inhibited bacterial activity by 20 to 24% at MPC, which corresponded to concentrations in the range of microg/kg dry-weight sediment. Treatments with deltamethrin and isoproturon showed inhibiting effects on bacterial activity at NC exposures. Surprisingly, for captan, deltamethrin, and isoproturon, this inhibiting effect was not observed at 100MPC treatments. Microbial biomass was negatively effected in MPC treatments with deltamethrin and in NC treatments with isoproturon. The tested pesticides did not affect community respiration and denitrification rates. These results show that exposure to the tested pesticides may induce toxic responses in sediment microbial communities at concentrations that are predicted to be environmentally safe.	1	pesticide
15356228	Sorption and degradation of alachlor and metolachlor in ground water using green sands.	Reactive barriers are used for in situ treatment of contaminated ground water. Waste green sand, a by-product of gray-iron foundries that contains iron particles and organic carbon, was evaluated in this study as a low-cost reactive material for treating ground water contaminated with the herbicides alachlor [2-chloro-2',6'-diethyl-N-(methoxymethyl)acetanilide] and metolachlor [2-chloro-6'-ethyl-N-(2-methoxy-1-methylethyl)-o-acetoluidide]. Batch and column tests were conducted with 11 green sands to determine transport parameters and reaction rate constants for the herbicides. Similar Fe-normalized rate constants (K(SA)) were obtained from the batch and column tests. The K(SA) values obtained for green sand iron were also found to be comparable with or slightly higher than K(SA) values for Peerless iron, a common reactive medium used in reactive barriers. Partition coefficients ranging between 3.6 and 50.2 L/kg were obtained for alachlor and between 1.0 and 54.8 L/kg for metolachlor, indicating that the organic carbon and clay in green sands can significantly retard the movement of the herbicides. Partition coefficients obtained from the batch and column tests were similar (+/-25%), but the batch tests typically yielded higher partition coefficients for green sands exhibiting greater sorption. Calculations made using transport parameters from the column tests indicate that a 1-m-thick reactive barrier will result in a 10-fold reduction in concentration of alachlor and metolachlor for seepage velocities less than 0.1 m/d provided the green sand contains at least 2% iron. This level of reduction generally is sufficient to reduce alachlor and metolachlor concentrations below maximum contaminant levels in the United States.	1	pesticide
15356237	Degradation of N,N'-dibutylurea (DBU) in soils treated with only DBU and DBU-fortified benlate fungicides.	N,N'-dibutylurea (DBU) is a breakdown product of benomyl [methyl 1-(butylcarbamoyl)-2-benzimidazole carbamate], the active ingredient in Benlate fungicides, and has been proposed to cause crop damage after the use of Benlate 50 DF fungicide (DuPont, Wilmington, DE). Our research focused on DBU persistence after application into soil. We assessed DBU persistence on direct application of DBU (carbonyl-(14)C) at two concentrations (0.08 and 0.8 microg DBU kg(-1)) to seven soils and two potting mixes in soil microcosms incubated at various combinations of soil water potential (-0.03 or -0.1 MPa) and temperature (23, 33, 44 degrees C). For two soils at a subset of treatment variables we assessed DBU persistence in the presence of Benlate DF and SP fungicide formulations. Parent compounds, metabolites, and (14)CO(2) were tracked using chromatographic analysis with radioassay and UV detection, liquid scintillation counting, and post-extraction oxidation of the soil. DBU degradation was primarily microbial and for most soil-treatment combinations, half-lives were less than 2 wk. DBU degradation was retarded at the lower soil water potential and enhanced at 33 degrees C. In the presence of the formulation, DBU degradation was slower for one soil type. The longest half-life observed in any case was less than 7 wk; therefore, long-term persistence of DBU applied to soils through a Benlate application is very unlikely.	1	pesticide
15367927	Estimating pesticide dose from urinary pesticide concentration data by creatinine correction in the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES-III).	The Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES-III) of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recorded data on the urinary concentrations of 12 chemicals (analytes), which were either pesticides or their metabolites, that represent exposure to certain pesticides, in urine samples collected from 1988 to 1994 from a cohort of 978 volunteer subjects, aged 20-59 years. We have used each subject's urinary creatinine concentration and their individual daily creatinine excretion rate (g/day) computed from their age, gender, height and weight, to estimate their daily excretion rate in microg analyte/kg/day. We discuss the mechanisms of excretion of the analytes and certain assumptions needed to compute the equivalent daily dietary intake (microg/kg/day) of the most likely parent pesticide compounds for each excreted analyte. We used literature data on the average amount of parent compound ingested per unit amount of the analyte excreted in the urine, and compared these estimated daily intakes to the US EPA's reference dose (RfD) values for each of those parent pesticides. A Johnson S(B) distribution (four-parameter lognormal) was fit to these data to estimate the national distribution of exclusive exposures to these 12 parent compounds. Only three such pesticides had a few predicted values above their RfD (lindane 1.6%; 2,4-dichlorophenol 1.3%; chlorpyrifos 0.02%). Given the possibility of a subject's dietary intake of a pesticide's metabolites incorporated into treated food, our results show that few, if any, individuals in the general US population aged 20-59 years and not employed in pesticide application were likely to have exceeded the USEPA RfD for these parent compounds during the years studied.	1	pesticide
15379004	Effect of grasses on herbicide fate in the soil column: infiltration of runoff, movement, and degradation.	The objective of the present study was to evaluate if the presence of grass or the type of grass influences the environmental fate of herbicides within a soil column. Intact soil columns were planted with either smooth brome, big bluestem, tall fescue, switchgrass, or a mixture of prairie grasses or were left unvegetated. Artificial runoff containing atrazine, metolachlor, and pendimethalin was applied to the columns and allowed to infiltrate, and the resulting leachate was collected at the bottom of the soil column. This process was repeated on day 7 with herbicide-fortified runoff and on days 14 and 21 with water only. Following the leaching experiments, soil from the columns was fortified with either [14C]atrazine or [14C]metolachlor to measure pesticide degradation potential. The mean time necessary for infiltration of the artificial runoff decreased from 7.5 h for unvegetated to 3.4 h for grassed soil columns, and the type of grass did not have a significant effect. Neither the type of grass nor the presence of grass caused a significant change in the total amount of herbicide that leached through the columns. However, the presence of some grasses did decrease the amount of herbicide that leached in the final two events (i.e., additions not fortified with herbicide). Fescue was the least effective, reducing the amount of leached atrazine and metolachlor by 13% and 33% respectively, and mixed prairie grass was most effective, with reductions of 43% and 44%, respectively. In addition, atrazine and metolachlor degraded more rapidly in soil vegetated by some grasses. Mixed prairie grass had the greatest effect, increasing atrazine mineralization by 260% and formation of metolachlor-bound residue by 760%.	1	pesticide
15388237	Oxidative damages in isolated rat hepatocytes treated with the organochlorine fungicides captan, dichlofluanid and chlorothalonil.	The cytotoxicity and lipid peroxidative potency of the organochlorine fungicides captan (N-(trichloromethylthio)-4-cyclohexene-1,2-dicarboximide), dichlofluanid (N-dichlorofluoromethylthio-N'N'-dimethyl-N-phenylsulfamide) and chlorothalonil (2,4,5,6-tetrachloro-isophthalonitrile) were studied in isolated rat hepatocytes. These fungicides induced cytotoxicity and lipid peroxidation in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Considerable cytotoxicity and lipid peroxidation occurred after cells were treated with 25 microM and more of fungicide. The phosphatidylcholine hydroperoxide (PCOOH) content increased more than 300 times by captan (250-1000 microM), 400 times by dichlofluanid (250-1000 microM) and 20 times by chlorothalonil (25-1000 microM) after 1h of incubation, as compared with untreated control. Significant cytotoxicity occurred after 20 min (captan), 30 min (dichlofluanid) and 60 min (chlorothalonil) of incubation and lipid peroxidation was induced prior to cytotoxicity. The antioxidant alpha-tocopherol and cytochrome P450 inhibitor SKF-525A effectively prevented cytotoxicity and lipid peroxidation. Our results suggest that metabolites of these fungicides produced by the microsomal cytochrome P450 system, induced membrane phospholipid peroxidation that caused cytotoxicity.	1	pesticide
15446413	[The influence of the actoprotectors on lipid peroxidation and erythrocyte membranes in rats poisoned with malathion ].	Actoprotecting properties ofbemitil, tietasol in combination with atropin were studied in red cell membranes and lipid peroxidation of rats poisoned with MI in a dose 320 mg/kg (0.9 LD50). Atropin treatment showed a low effect. The addition of bemitil and tietasol normalized electric charge and osmotic resistance in red cell membranes, activity of superoxide dismutase, catalase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and content of lipid peroxidation products--ketodienes and TBA-reacting products. Efficacy of the combined treatment is due primarily to noncholinergic mechanism of action of bemitil and tietasol--stimulation of endogenic antioxidant systems of erythron and antiradical activity (bemitil).	1	pesticide
15453417	Liquid chromatography-electrospray quadrupole ion-trap mass spectrometry of nine pesticides in fruits.	A liquid chromatographic method, with electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS-MS), has been developed for determining acrinathrin, carbosulfan, cyproconazole, lambda-cyhalothrin, kresoxim methyl, pyrifenox, pyriproxyfen, propanil, and tebufenpyrad in fruits. The ions prominent in ESI spectra were [M + H]+ and [M + Na]+. In the mass analyzer, collision-induced dissociation fragmentation involved common pathways, for example, product ions of [M + H]+ resulted from the cleavage of the carbamic group or an oxygen bound. The utility of the method is demonstrated by the analysis of crude extracts obtained by matrix solid-phase dispersion (MSPD) using C18 as dispersant and dichloromethane-methanol as eluent, and by solid-liquid extraction (SLE) with ethyl acetate and anhydrous sodium sulfate. Mean recoveries ranged from 51.5 to 108%, with relative standard deviations <16%, were obtained for MSPD and from 59 to 101% with relative standard deviation <17% for SLE. However, for most compounds, limits of quantification are better by SLE (0.01-4.4 mg kg(-1)) than by MSPD (0.05-2 mg kg(-1)). During the validation process, the procedure was tested for matrix effects, blanks and stability of the system. Considerably matrix effects in the ESI ionization process were detected by comparing standard calibration, and matrix calibration. Because of this, detected residues were quantified from interpolation against calibration data obtained using matrix matched standards.	1	pesticide
15453692	Isomer selectivity in aquatic toxicity and biodegradation of cypermethrin.	Synthetic pyrethroids (SPs) are widely used in both agricultural and urban regions for insect control. Unlike many other pesticides, SPs are chiral compounds consisting of stereoisomers. However, occurrence of isomer selectivity in environmental processes is poorly understood for SPs. We evaluated isomer selectivity in toxicity of cypermethrin (CP) to Ceriodaphnia dubia and in its biodegradation by microbial isolates and in sediment. Among the eight enantiomers, two enantiomers (1R-cis-alphaS and 1R-trans-alphaS) were found to be toxic to C. dubia. Bacteria strains isolated from sediment selectively degraded CP diastereomers and enantiomers. The trans diastereomers were preferentially degraded over the cis diastereomers. Of the two active enantiomers, 1R-cis-alphaS was degraded slower, whereas 1R-trans-alphaS was degraded faster than the other stereoisomers. Similar isomer selectivity was observed during CP degradation in whole sediment. Since ecotoxicity is likely caused only by the biologically active enantiomers, knowledge on isomer selectivity may improve our understanding of the ecological risks of CP and analogous SPs.	1	pesticide
15473637	Surfactant-enhanced release of carbaryl and ethion from two long-term contaminated soils.	The potential of five nonionic surfactants, Triton X-100, Brij35, Ethylan GE08, Ethylan CD127, and Ethylan CPG660 for enhancing release of carbaryl and ethion from two long-term contaminated soils was evaluated using the batch method. Incorporation of the surfactants into soils enhanced the release of both pesticides to various extents, which could be related to the type of pesticides and type and the amount of surfactants added. Release of ethion was dramatically enhanced by aqueous concentrations of surfactants above their critical micelle concentration values. This was attributed to solubility enhancement through incorporation of the highly hydrophobic compound within surfactant micelles. A concentration of 10 g L(-1) of various surfactants released >70% of the total ethion from the soil irrespective of the surfactant. For carbaryl, the surfactants were effective at low concentrations and dependence on concentration was lower than in the case of ethion. The ethylan surfactants (GE08, CD127, and CPG660) had a higher potential than Triton X-100 and Brij35 for releasing the pesticides. However, there was still a significant portion of carbaryl (11% of the total) and ethion (17% of the total) left in the soil. Our study also showed that there must be an optimal concentration of each surfactant to maximize the mass transfer of pesticides. At some threshold concentration level, additional surfactant started to inhibit the mass transfer of solute from the soil into the water. The results suggested that surfactants could help remediation of soils polluted by pesticides. The choice of surfactant should be made based on the properties of pesticides.	1	pesticide
15499498	Occurrence and distribution of pesticides in the province of Bologna, Italy, using honeybees as bioindicators.	Samples of honeybees (Apis mellifera, n = 92) from 14 beehive monitoring stations located in 3 townships in the province of Bologna were analyzed from April to October 2000. The concentration of 32 organophosphorus pesticides and 5 carbamates was determined through liquid-liquid extraction followed by gas chromatography with a nitrogen-phosphorus detector and liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry using atmospheric pressure chemical ionization in positive and negative ion modes. The most contaminated samples were from Granarolo Emilia where cereals (wheat, sorghum, and corn), sugar beets, and potatoes are the main agriculture products. Thirty-five pesticides were detected, with organophosphorus being the most abundant ones. Malathion was detected in 58% of the samples (mean level 0.360 mg/kg) followed by fenithrothion in 53% of the samples (mean level 0.544 mg/kg) and pirimiphos methyl in 48% of the samples (mean level 0.006 mg/kg). Temporal trends showed that the maximum detection frequency occurred in late spring and was associated with the use of treatment products and less rainfall. The obtained results demonstrated the feasibility of using honeybees for assessing pesticide exposure in agriculture settings.	1	pesticide
15499504	Immune function and organochlorine pollutants in Arctic breeding glaucous gulls.	Organochlorine contaminants (OCs) are known to affect the immune systems of wildlife, and in this study we assessed the relationship between blood concentration of different OCs and measurements relevant to immune status and function in arctic breeding glaucous gulls (Larus hyperboreus). In 1997 and 2001, we counted white blood cells (heterophils and lymphocytes) from blood smears, and in 2000 and 2001 we injected two novel nonpathogenic antigens (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids) into the pectoral muscle of gulls and measured the primary antibody responses. We then related these measurements to the blood concentrations of three pesticides (hexachlorobenzene [HCB], oxychlordane, and p,p'-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene) and seven different polychlorinated biphenyl congeners (PCB 101, 99, 118, 153, 138, 180, and 170). There were significant or near significant positive relationships (0.1 > p > 0.001) between most persistent OCs and the levels of heterophils in the blood for both sexes in 1997 and for male gulls in 2001. Similarly, levels of all persistent OCs and lymphocytes were positively related (0.1 > p > 0.001) in both sexes in 1997. This suggests that OCs are causing alterations to immune systems, which may decrease their efficiency and make the birds more susceptible to parasites and diseases. In female gulls, the antibody response to the diphtheria toxoid was significant and negative for HCB (p < 0.01) and weaker, but significant, for oxychlordane (p < 0.05), suggesting that OCs were causing an impairment of the humoral immunity. Various OCs have been linked to negative effects in our study population, including decreased survival and reproduction, and this study suggests that such compounds also affect immune status and function.	1	pesticide
15511103	Empirical and modeling evidence of regional atmospheric transport of current-use pesticides.	Water samples from 30 lakes in Canada and the northeastern United States were analyzed for the occurrence of 27 current-use pesticides (CUPs). Eleven CUPs were frequently detected in lakes receiving agricultural inputs as well as in remote lakes hundreds of kilometers from known application areas. These included the triazine herbicide atrazine and its desethylated degradation product; the herbicides alachlor, metolachlor, and dacthal; the organophosphate insecticides chlorpyrifos, diazinon, and disulfoton; the organochlorine insecticides alpha-endosulfan and lindane; and the fungicides chlorothalonil and flutriafol. For six of the pesticides, empirical half-distances on the order of 560 to 1,820 km were estimated from the water-concentration gradient with latitude. For most of the pesticides, a suite of assessment models failed to predict such atmospheric long-range transport behavior, unless the effect of periods of lower hydroxyl radical concentrations and dry weather were taken into account. Observations and model results suggest that under the conditions prevailing in south-central Canada (relatively high latitude, low precipitation rates), many CUPs will be able to undergo regional-scale atmospheric transport and reach lakes outside areas of agricultural application. When assessing the potential of fairly reactive and water-soluble substances to undergo long-range transport, it is imperative to account for periods of no precipitation, to assure that degradation rate constants are correct, and to apply oxidant concentrations that are valid for the region and time period of interest.	1	pesticide
15529877	Demonstration of sperm head shape abnormality and clastogenic potential of cypermethrin.	Adult male Swiss albino mice were administered ip. suspension solution of cypermethrin in 0.15% DMSO at the doses of 30 mg, 60 mg and 90 mg/kg b. wt. daily for 5 days. Another group of animals was injected cyclophosphamide ip. (60 mg/kg b. wt.) in similar manner which served as positive control. Effect of cypermethrin on body and testes weight and sperm head morphology was studied. Clastogenic potential of cypermethrin was studied by using modified Allium test. The cytological changes were studied in the root tip cells of Allium cepa after 3 days treatment with three different concentration of cypermethrin (0.1, 1.0 and 10.0 microg/ml). The results revealed that body weight gain was considerably reduced in higher dose groups, but the testicular weight did not change significantly in any of the cypermethrin treated groups. However, a significant elevation in the number of abnormal shape of sperm head was noticed in higher dose groups as compared to control. It was observed that the abnormality in the shape of sperm head was dose-dependent. The cytological changes in the root tip cells of Allium cepa indicated that cypermethrin is having toxic effects on the root tip cells in the form of stickiness of chromosomes and also affect the mitotic activity. This study suggest that cypermethrin may have the potential to induce adverse effects on sperm head shape morphology of mouse as well as clastogenic effects on root tip cells of Allium cepa.	1	pesticide
15532928	Efficacy of methyl bromide fumigation and insecticidal dips against Aedes eggs on lucky bamboo.	Importation of lucky bamboo (Dracaena sp.) stalk clusters has led to the accidental importation of Aedes albopictus in some countries. Current methods of fumigation using methyl bromide are harmful to live plants and thus are not acceptable. We exposed Aedes aegypti eggs to methyl bromide at rates of 32 g/m3 for 2 and 3 h and 48 g/m3 for 3 h, achieving complete control in 0/5, 1/5, and 5/5 replicates, respectively. Submersion for 1 min in aqueous solutions of 0.04% active ingredient (AI) lambda-cyhalothrin, 0.04% AI bifenthrin and carbaryl + malathion (both 0.1% AI) + petroleum oil (1% AI) provided 100% control of Ae. aegypti eggs laid on Dracaena stalk clusters. These methods, apparently harmless to plants, would have application in preventing the importation of exotic Aedes eggs on lucky bamboo shipments.	1	pesticide
15559277	Degradation of metolachlor in bare and vegetated soils and in simulated water-sediment systems.	A study was conducted to determine the half-life (t1/2), degradation rate, and metabolites of metolachlor in a water-sediment system and in soil with and without switchgrass. Metolachlor degradation in a laboratory was determined in sediment from Bojac sandy loam soil incubated at 24 degrees C. The study also was conducted in a greenhouse on tilted beds filled with Bojac soil and planted with switchgrass. In both experiments, samples were collected at days 0, 7, 14, 28, 42, 56, and 112 and analyzed for metolachlor and its major metabolites. The water-sediment oxidation-reduction potential took 28 d to reach -371 mV and the pH increased from 5.6 to 6.5 by the last sampling day (day 112). The average soil temperature of the tilted beds with or without switchgrass during the study was 21degrees C and the soil moisture content was 23% by volume. The t1/2 of metolachlor was 34 d in sediment and 8 d in the water phase. The t1/2 of metolachlor in soil from the switchgrass filter strip (6 d) was not different from that in soil without grass (9.6 d). The metolachlor metabolites ethanesulfonic acid (ESA) and oxanilic acid (OA) were detected in the water-sediment system and in soil from tilted beds. In both sediment and soil from tilted beds, the two metabolites peaked by day 56 of incubation and declined after that, indicating transformation to other products. In the water-sediment system, greater quantities of OA and ESA were detected in sediment than in the aqueous phase. The production of OA and ESA in the watersediment system occurred in the first 28 d, when the system was at an aerobic redox state. Metolachlor can degrade in sediment and the relatively high soil temperature and moisture level accelerated its breakdown in beds with and without switchgrass. Under warm and moist soil conditions, the presence of switchgrass has no effect on the degradation of metolachlor.	1	pesticide
15559280	Persistence of selected organophosphate and carbamate insecticides in waters from a coastal watershed.	Organophosphate and carbamate compounds are among the most widely used pesticides. Contamination of surface water by these compounds is of concern because of potential toxicity to aquatic organisms, especially those at lower trophic levels. In this study we evaluated the persistence of diazinon, chlorpyrifos, malathion, and carbaryl in waters from various sites in the Newport Bay-San Diego Creek watershed in southern California (USA). The persistence of diazinon and chlorpyrifos was much longer than that of malathion or carbaryl and was further prolonged in seawater. Microbial degradation contributed significantly to the dissipation of diazinon and chlorpyrifos in freshwater, but was inhibited in seawater, leading to increased persistence. In contrast, degradation of malathion and carbaryl was rapid and primarily abiotic. A greater temperature dependence was observed for carbaryl degradation in all waters and for diazinon degradation in freshwater. The interactions of pesticide persistence with water location, temperature, and type of pesticides suggest that site- and compound-specific information is needed when evaluating the overall ecotoxicological risks of pesticide pollution in a watershed. Because the persistence of diazinon and chlorpyrifos may increase significantly in seawater, mitigation should occur before the pesticides reach seawater. The relatively short persistence of these compounds in freshwater suggests that practices aimed at extending residence time (e.g., diversion to wetlands) may effectively reduce pesticide output to downstream water bodies.	1	pesticide
15559292	Plant uptake and translocation of highly weathered, soil-bound technical chlordane residues: data from field and rhizotron studies.	It has been observed that plants are susceptible to uptake from soil and in planta transport of technical chlordane, in spite of its hydrophobicity and sequestration within the soil matrix due to weathering. Field and rhizotron studies were conducted with Cucurbitaceae planted in highly weathered, chlordane-contaminated soil to investigate details of soil-to-plant contaminant uptake. In the field-work, Cucurbita pepo L. (zucchini) was grown in soil at four levels of chlordane contamination: Clean (<limits of quantitation, 5 ng/g), low (average, 370 ng/g), medium (average, 1,951 ng/g), and high (average, 4,572 ng/g). The analysis of plant tissues (root, stem, leaf, and fruit) resulted in the detection of chlordane consistently at the highest concentration in the root tissue at each level of soil contamination. As the soil chlordane concentration increased, the average chlordane concentration in the root tissue increased as follows: Clean, 370 ng/g; low, 8,130 ng/g; medium, 21,800 ng/g; high, 29,400 ng/g. Further analysis of the field-grown plants showed distinct differences in both the proportional distribution of chlordane among the plant tissues and the pattern of the chlordane residues in each tissue type. These differences are attributed to plant uptake from soil versus uptake from air. In the rhizotron studies, uptake of chlordane residues by C. pepo L. was compared with that of another Cucurbitaceae, Cucumis sativus L. (cucumber). Xylem sap from the rhizotron-grown plants was collected and analyzed for chlordane, in addition to determination of chlordane residues in soil, roots, and aerial plant tissue. Component fractions and enantiomer fractions of both chiral and achiral chlordanes were followed through soil, root, xylem sap, and aerial tissue compartments. They indicate that the xenobiotic residues translocate enantioselectively from the soil matrix into and through the plant environment with genera-specific patterns. The determination of chlordanes at ng/g concentration explicitly for the first time in the xylem sap of plants grown in contaminated soil confirms the presence of a soil-sequestered and highly hydrophobic organic contaminant within the aqueous plant environment.	1	pesticide
15569394	Reduced bio-efficacy of permethrin EC impregnated bednets against an Anopheles gambiae strain with oxidase-based pyrethroid tolerance.	BACKGROUND: Insecticide-treated nets (ITNs) are an integral component of malaria control programmes in Africa. How much pyrethroid resistance in malaria vectors will impact on the efficacy of ITNs is controversial. The purpose of this study was to evaluate knockdown and killing effects of ITNs on a metabolic-based resistant or tolerant malaria vector strain. METHODS: Bio-efficacy of 500 mg/m2 permethrin EC treated bednets was assessed on the OCEAC laboratory (OC-Lab) strain of Anopheles gambiae s.s.. This strain is resistant to DDT and tolerant to pyrethroids, with elevated mixed function oxidases. The Kisumu reference susceptible strain of A. gambiae s.s. was used as control. Nets were impregnated in February 1998 and used by households of the Ebogo village. Then they were collected monthly over six months for Bio-assays (WHO cone test). Knockdown and mortality rates were compared between the OC-Lab and the Kisumu strains, by means of the Mantel-Haenszel chi-square test. RESULTS: During the whole trial, permethrin EC knockdown rates were impressive (mostly higher than 97%). No significant difference was observed between the two strains. However, the mortality rates were significantly decreased in the OC-Lab strain (40-80%) compared with that of the Kisumu strain (75-100%). The decrease of killing effect on the OC-Lab strain was attributed to permethrin EC tolerance, due to the high oxidase metabolic activity. CONCLUSION: These data suggested an impact of pyrethroid tolerance on the residual activity of ITNs. More attention should be given to early detection of resistance using biochemical or molecular assays for better resistance management.	1	pesticide
15602583	Determinants of temporal variability in NHEXAS-Maryland environmental concentrations, exposures, and biomarkers.	The longitudinal NHEXAS-Maryland study measured metals, PAHs, and pesticides in several media to capture temporal variability. Questionnaires were concurrently administered to identify factors that influenced changes in contaminant levels over time. We constructed mixed-effects regression models for lead, phenanthrene, and chlorpyrifos (including metabolites) in indoor air, dust, dermal wipes, and biological fluids. Significant predictors represented time-varying activities as well as unchanging housing and demographic factors. There was little overlap among the models, with predictors generally reflecting the diverse characteristics of the target compounds. We estimated between- and within-person variance components to evaluate the reliability of the measurements. While only one measurement of lead in blood or chlopyrifos in dust was needed for a dependable estimate of an individual's average level, three to eight measurements were needed for most other compound/exposure medium combinations because of considerable temporal variability. Measurements in biological fluids and dust were generally more consistent than those in indoor air. The significant covariates in the full models preferentially reduced the between-person variance component. Since the regression models explained only 1-37% of the within-person variance, the questionnaires in this study provided only modest insight into the factors responsible for the temporal variability in the contaminant levels.	1	pesticide
15607785	Organochlorine and organophosphorous pesticide residues in ground water and surface waters of Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh, India.	A survey undertaken in Kanpur, northern India, has shown the presence of high concentrations of both organochlorine and organophosphorous pesticides in the surface and ground water samples. Liquid-liquid extraction followed by GC-ECD was used for the determination of these compounds. Among the various pesticides analyzed, high concentrations of gamma-HCH (0.259 microg/l) and malathion (2.618 microg/l) were detected in the surface water samples collected from the River Ganges in Kanpur. In the ground water samples collected from the various hand pumps located in agricultural and industrial areas, apart from gamma-HCH and malathion, dieldrin was also detected. The maximum concentration values of gamma-HCH, malathion and dieldrin were 0.900, 29.835 and 16.227 microg/l, respectively. Especially, the concentration of malathion was found to be much higher than the EC water quality standards in the ground water samples from industrial area posing a high risk to the common people. Pesticides like DDE, DDT, aldrin, ethion, methyl parathion and endosulfan were not detected in both the surface and ground water samples.	1	pesticide
15612566	The genetic basis of malathion resistance in housefly (Musca domestica L.) strains from Turkey.	Organophosphate insecticide (parathion/diazinon) resistance in housefly (Musca domestica L.) is associated with the change in carboxylesterase activity. The product of MdalphaE7 gene is probably playing a role in detoxification of xenebiotic esters. In our research, we have isolated, cloned and sequenced the MdalphaE7 gene from 5 different Turkish housefly strains. High doses of malathion (600 microg/fly) were applied in a laboratory environment for one year to Ceyhan1, Ceyhan2, Adana and Ankara strains while no insecticide treatment was performed in the laboratory to Kirazli strain. Trp251 --> Ser substitution was found in the product of MdalphaE7 gene in all malathion resistant and Kirazli stocks. In addition, we checked the malathion carboxylesterase (MCE), percent remaining activities in acetylcholinesterase (AChE), glutathion-S-transferase (GST), and general esterase activities in all 5 strains used in this study. In comparing with universal standard sensitive control WHO, a high level of MCE and GST activities were observed while lower level of general esterase activities was detected in the tested strains. In addition, a higher percent remaining activities in AChE than WHO susceptible strain were observed in all malathion resistant strains.	1	pesticide
15620086	Fungicidal impact on chickpea--Mesorhizobium symbiosis.	The effects of carbendazim, captan, thiram, and mancozeb, on plant vitality, chlorophyll content, N uptake, protein content, nodulation, and seed yield in chickpea (Cicer arietinun) were assessed in a controlled environment. Seeds treated with fungicides at 1 and 1.5 g.a.i. kg seed had no significant adverse effect on plant vigor, seed yield, and N and protein contents. In contrast, fungicides applied at 2 g.a.i./kg of captan, thiram and mancozeb, significantly reduced the measured parameters. In general, the toxicity of fungicides in terms of seed yield increased in the following order: Control=carbendazim > thiram > captan > mancozeb. Total chlorophyll content in foliage declined consistently with fungicides dose rates and application days. Seeds treated with lower rates of fungicides significantly increased nodulation (nodule number per plant and its dry mass) and were compatible with chickpea inoculum used in this study. Although carbendazim at 2 g.a.i. kg seed had no phytotoxic effect assessed under greenhouse conditions, it significantly reduced the chlorophyll content, nodulation (60d) and N content in shoots.	1	pesticide
15620861	Vitamins C and E reverse effect of herbicide-induced toxicity on human epidermal cells HaCaT: a biochemometric approach.	The purpose of this study was to investigate and compare the cytotoxicity of glyphosate alone or included in Roundup 3 plus modulated by the cytoprotective effects of additional antioxidants such as Vitamin C and Vitamin E on the human keratinocytes cell line HaCaT. An experimental design which allows to minimize the number of experiments was carried out to determine the optimal conditions for cytoprotection against herbicide-induced toxicity. It was shown that HaCaT cell line provides a useful model to study components with toxicity or antioxidant activity. Our results indicated that (i) glyphosate-based formulations can be responsible for oxidative damage to human epidermal cells, (ii) antioxidant compounds should be associated to herbicide formulations to decrease their deleterious effects on human skin. The use of an experimental design connected with the simplex method can be consider to be a fast technique to classify, with a limited number of experiments, the respective role of five parameters in the in vitro cytoprotection by antioxidants of herbicide-induced toxicity.	1	pesticide
15650013	Pesticide residues on the external surfaces of field crop sprayers: occupational exposure.	There is a general perception, amongst farmers and researchers, that post-application residues on the external surfaces of sprayers are negligible compared with residues remaining on the internal surfaces, although there have been few attempts to verify this assumption. The aim of this study was to investigate, using cotton glove sampling, operator exposure resulting from three typical operations: entering and working in the cab, general handling of the sprayer and maintenance practices. Samples were analysed for azoxystrobin, carbendazim, chlorothalonil, cyanazine, cypermethrin, epoxiconazole, flusilazole, isoproturon, kresoxim-methyl, metazachlor, pendimethalin, pirimicarb and tebuconazole. Isoproturon, pendimethalin, chlorothalonil and carbendazim were detected >1 mg per glove pair on the cotton gloves, but on the whole there was variability in residue levels between and within compounds. Comparison of results with occupational exposure limits indicated that residues were such that they may not necessarily be considered insignificant. It may therefore be prudent to develop more efficient methods for the external decontamination of sprayers and/or raise awareness of the findings.	1	pesticide
15654877	Molecular identification and expression study of differentially regulated genes in the Pacific oyster Crassostrea gigas in response to pesticide exposure.	The effects of pesticide contamination on the metabolism of marine molluscs are poorly documented. We investigated the response of a marine bivalve, the Pacific oyster, Crassostrea gigas, using a suppression subtractive hybridization method to identify up- and down-regulated genes after a 30-day exposure period to herbicides (a cocktail of atrazine, diuron and isoproturon, and to the single herbicide glyphosate). A total of 137 unique differentially expressed gene sequences was identified, as well as their associated physiological process. The expression of 18 of these genes was analyzed by RT-PCR under laboratory experimental conditions. The metabolic functions they are associated with include xenobiotic detoxification, energy production, immune system response and transcription. This study provides a preliminary basis for studying the response of marine bivalves to long-term herbicide exposure in terms of regulated gene expression and characterizes new potential genetic markers of herbicide contamination.	1	pesticide
15663293	Inhibition of trans-permethrin hydrolysis in human liver fractions by chloropyrifos oxon and carbaryl.	Permethrin, a pyrethroid insecticide, is one of several deployment-related chemicals that have been suggested as causative agents for Gulf War related illnesses. Hydrolysis of trans-permethrin (tPMT) is a major route of detoxication and a potential locus for interactions with chemicals with similar use patterns. This study examined the potential inhibitory effects of chlorpyrifos, carbaryl, pyridostigmine bromide and the insect repellent N,N-diethyl-m-toluamide (DEET) on tPMT hydrolysis in human liver fractions. Although chlorpyrifos was not inhibitory, its toxic metabolite, chlorpyrifos oxon, strongly and irreversibly inhibited tPMT hydrolysis at low concentrations (cytosolic and microsomal Ki values of 3 and 16 nM, respectively). Carbaryl, a known anticholinesterase agent, showed non-competitive inhibition kinetics, with Ki values two orders of magnitude higher than those for chlorpyrifos oxon. Although DEET was much less effective than either chlorpyrifos oxon or carbaryl, equimolar concentrations inhibited up to 45% of tPMT hydrolysis. Pyridostigmine bromide showed no inhibitory effects. This study suggests that interaction potential between organophosphorus and pyrethroid insecticides should be considered in safety assessments when both insecticides are deployed simultaneously.	1	pesticide
15666762	Contamination affects the performance of insecticidal baits against German cockroaches (Dictyoptera: Blattellidae).	The effects of contamination of insecticidal bait formulations, by using mint oil and silica aerogel, were evaluated in a series of laboratory experiments against the German cockroach, Blattella germanica (L.). Bait consumption at 3 d for uncontaminated baits ranged from 0.01 g for Avert dust to 0.399 g for Combat dry bait with hydramethylnon presented in a station. LT50 values for uncontaminated gel bait deposits ranged from 0.4 d for PreEmpt containing imidacloprid to 4.1 d for Maxforce containing hydramethylnon. As a group, significantly more gel bait was consumed than solid formulations even when both formulations had similar concentrations of the same active ingredient. As a result, gel baits were significantly more toxic than solid formulations. Application of mint oil directly to bait deposits significantly decreased bait consumption and increased overall LT50 values. When bait formulation types were examined individually, there was no difference in consumption or toxicity between contaminated and uncontaminated gel formulations. Contaminated solid baits, however, had significantly greater LT50 values and less consumption than uncontaminated solid baits. Gel formulations probably absorbed the contaminants and removed them from the surface of the bait deposits resulting in normal bait consumption and toxicity. Gel and solid bait deposits, inside plastic exposure stations or alone with no station and placed onto mint oil-contaminated substrates, had significantly lower bait consumption and greater LT50 values than baits placed on uncontaminated substrates. Contamination of a baited area is more likely than contamination of just the bait deposit and therefore a more realistic test of the effects of contamination on bait performance. The importance of contamination to the performance of cockroach baits is discussed.	1	pesticide
15667842	Chlorpyrifos-methyl dissipation in a small adjacent water body following application to citrus.	Chlorpyrifos-methyl use in citrus, vineyards and vegetables is extensive and it has become an essential component of pest control in Southern European regions. The objective of this study was to assess surface water and sediment exposure to chlorpyrifos-methyl (RELDAN 22) under field conditions in a citrus orchard in Sicily (Italy). Pesticide drift loadings were measured in a small surface water body situated 0.5-1.0 m from the edge of the treated field. Measured drift values after the application were between 0.04% and 0.19% of the theoretical applied dose and were highly variable. However, the loadings were lower than those measured by other authors, also lower than predicted by regulatory drift models (95th percentile) typically used for aquatic risk assessment in Europe. Most of the variability occurred due to fluctuating wind speed and direction. In water samples collected in the surface water adjacent to the target field, chlorpyrifos-methyl was detected immediately after application, with concentrations ranging from less than the limit of quantification of the analytical method (0.05 microg/l) to a maximum of 0.08 microg/l. Predicted environmental concentrations in water, using the TOXSWA model, were similar to the measured data when measured drift data from the field experiment were used as inputs.	1	pesticide
15668959	Evolution of a microbial acetyltransferase for modification of glyphosate: a novel tolerance strategy.	N-Acetylation is a modification of glyphosate that could potentially be used in transgenic crops, given a suitable acetyltransferase. Weak enzymatic activity (k(cat) = 5 min(-1), K(M) = 1 mM) for N-acetylation of glyphosate was discovered in several strains of Bacillus licheniformis (Weigmann) Chester by screening a microbial collection with a mass spectrometric assay. The parental enzyme conferred no tolerance to glyphosate in any host when expressed as a transgene. Eleven iterations of DNA shuffling resulted in a 7000-fold improvement in catalytic efficiency (k(cat)/K(M)), sufficient for conferring robust tolerance to field rates of glyphosate in transgenic tobacco and maize. In terms of k(cat)/K(M), the native enzyme exhibited weak activity (4-450% of that with glyphosate) with seven of the common amino acids. Evolution of the enzyme towards an improved k(cat)/K(M) for glyphosate resulted in increased activity toward aspartate (40-fold improved k(cat)), but activity with serine and phosphoserine almost completely vanished. No activity was observed among a broad sampling of nucleotides and antibiotics. Improved catalysis with glyphosate coincided with increased thermal stability.	1	pesticide
15706950	[Determination of soil organic carbon adsorption coefficients of pollutants using soil column liquid chromatography with stepwise adsorption].	A novel method for the determination of soil organic carbon adsorption coefficients (K(oc)) of pollutants was established using soil column liquid chromatography with stepwise adsorption. With this method the adsorption amount of samples at various concentrations on soil can be obtained in a single experiment. The values of K(oc) can be calculated through adsorption isotherms. The soil column can be used without change or desorption throughout the whole experiment. This method leads to a shorter experimental duration, simplified experimental procedure and experimental error reduction. The values of log K(oc) for tebuconazole, azinphos-methyl, diuron, atrazine, prometryn, phenol and naphthalene on the European reference soil of 3# were measured to be 2.70, 2.87, 2.47, 2.26, 3.09, 1.51 and 2.77, respectively, which are consistent with the values reported in the literature.	1	pesticide
15712376	Impact of intraguild predation and lambda-cyhalothrin on predation efficacy of three acarophagous predators.	This laboratory study reports the interaction of three predators found in commercial apple orchards in Quebec, Hyaliodes vitripennis (Say) (Hemiptera: Miridae), Harmonia axyridis Pallas (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae) and Amblyseius fallacis (Garman) (Acarina: Phytoseiidae). First, intraguild predation between H vitripennis and the two other predators was characterized in the absence and presence of their extraguild prey, Tetranychus urticae Koch. The results showed an asymmetrical interaction in favour of the larger predator and the levels of intraguild predation were weak for the two predatory combinations. Presence of the phytophagous mite reduced the intensity of intraguild predation in the predatory combination of H axyridis and H vitripennis. Second, the effects of intraguild predation and the application of lambda-cyhalothrin on predation efficacy of the predators were evaluated. The application of the insecticide reduced prey consumption of H vitripennis and H axyridis but did not affect that of A fallacis. Combination of predators and an insecticide application resulted in two different situations depending on the species involved: a reduced predation efficacy for the combination of H vitripennis and H axyridis due to a knockdown effect caused by the insecticide, and no effect on T urticae consumption for H vitripennis and A fallacis. It is suggested that an integrated pest management program based on H vitripennis, A fallacis and lambda-cyhalothrin may be evaluated to repress phytophagous mites in Quebec orchards.	1	pesticide
15719232	Rapid analysis of pyrethroids in whole urine by high-performance liquid chromatography using a monolithic column and off-line preconcentration in a restricted access material cartridge.	A rapid high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method using a monolithic column with UV detection at 238 nm was developed for the determination of fenpropathrin, betacyfluthrin, deltamethrin, and permethrin (cis and trans isomers) in whole urine. The method is based on the use of a monolithic chromatographic column and a restricted access material (RAM) cartridge for sample preparation. The mobile phase was water/acetonitrile (42:58 v/v), the flow rate was 3 mL min(-1), and chromatographic separation was carried out in 10 min. The separation of cis and trans isomers of permethrin was also possible under the above-mentioned conditions. Detection limits in reconstituted whole urine samples were between 0.9 microg L(-1) for betacyfluthrin and 4.4 microg L(-1) for fenpropathrin and trans-permethrin. Recoveries for urine samples spiked with different amounts of pyrethroids (between 19 microg L(-1) and 75 microg L(-1)) were in the 70+/-6 to 90+/-7% range.	1	pesticide
15725510	Oral exposure to atrazine modulates cell-mediated immune function and decreases host resistance to the B16F10 tumor model in female B6C3F1 mice.	Atrazine (ATZ) is used throughout North America to control annual broadleaf weeds and grasses in various crops including; corn, sorghum, and sugar cane. Unfortunately, contamination of surface and ground water has occurred as a result of ATZ's chemical and physical properties, and its widespread use throughout the U.S. Midwest. A study of ATZ's immunomodulatory properties was conducted using female B6C3F1 mice and a panel of immune assays and host resistance models designed to evaluate cell-mediated and antibody-mediated immunity. Mice were administered ATZ by gavage (0, 24, 250, and 500 mg/kg/day) for 14 days then evaluated for immune responsiveness. ATZ treatment significantly increased the number of splenic CD8+ T cells, cytotoxic T cell and mixed leukocyte responses, and dose-dependently reduced host resistance to B16F10 melanoma. Thymus and spleen weights, total spleen cell numbers and fixed macrophage function was also reduced in mice that were exposed to ATZ. These results demonstrate that oral ATZ exposure is sufficient to alter cell-mediated immune function and disease resistance in female B6C3F1 mice.	1	pesticide
15739373	[Quantitative analysis of phoxim and cypermethrin using wide bore capillary column gas chromatography].	"A compound pesticide, 20% P-C emulsion, consisting of 18.5% phoxim and 1.5% cypermethrin pesticides and other accessory agents is especially effective in controlling and killing boll worms. For its quality control some difficulties were encountered. In this paper we propose a simple and practical method for GC analysis of the product by use of a short wide bore capillary column (HP-1, 5m x 0.53mm x 2.65microm), high carrier gas flow rate and high-speed temperature programming etc.. Content analysis of efficient composition of ""20% P-C emulsion"" was completed under the chromatographic conditions using methyl parathion as an internal standard. Coefficient of variation of phoxim and cypermethrin were 0.67% and 1.0% respectively."	1	pesticide
15740024	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) containing the bar gene is compositionally equivalent to the nontransgenic counterpart.	This publication presents an approach to assessing compositional equivalence between grain derived from glufosinate-tolerant rice grain, genetic event LLRICE62, and its nontransgenic counterpart. Rice was grown in the same manner as is common for commercial production, using either conventional weed control practices or glufosinate-ammonium herbicide. A two-season multisite trial design provided a robust data set to evaluate environmental effects between the sites. Statistical comparisons to test for equivalence were made between glufosinate-tolerant rice and a conventional counterpart variety. The key nutrients, carbohydrates, protein, iron, calcium, thiamin, riboflavin, and niacin, for which rice can be the principal dietary source, were investigated. The data demonstrate that rice containing the genetic locus LLRICE62 has the same nutritional value as its nontransgenic counterpart, and most results for nutritional components fall within the range of values reported for rice commodities in commerce.	1	pesticide
15756866	Effect of different chemical and mechanical defolation methods on the skin quality of potatoes.	Without foliage destruction an efficient harvest is impossible. Potatoes for the fresh market are often harvested when the foliage is still heavy green due to tuber size and starch content that must be limited. Tubers from immature vines are typically very susceptible to skinning and mechanical injury during harvest. Young tubers from immature vines need more time after foliage destruction to set periderm than tubers from senescent vines where the formation of periderm is already started. Spray schemes based on metoxuron, carfentrazone-ethyl and diquat at a dose of 300 g/ha caused slower leaf and stem desiccation. Over the 3 growing seasons it could be concluded that mechanical foliage destruction in combination with carfentrazone-ethyl + mineral oil promoted periderm formation better than the other desiccation schemes tested. A split treatment with diquat at 300 g/ha or carfentrazone-ehtyl + mineral oil followed by a second application of diquat or carfentrazone-ethyl can led to a slower periderm formation and even give secondary growth. A double treatment of diquat (300 g/ha) or carfentrazone-ethyl + mineral oil followed by diquat (600 g/ha) after 3 days gave satisfactory results. Rhizoctonia tuber infection increased with a longer field period after treatment. In general the increase was more pronounced for the spray schemes where skin set of the tubers was less fast.	1	pesticide
15758108	Interactions of organic compounds with wastewater dissolved organic matter: role of hydrophobic fractions.	The role of structural fractions of dissolved organic matter (DOM) from wastewater in the sorption process of hydrophobic organic compounds is still not clear. In this study, DOM from two wastewater treatment plants (Lachish and Netanya, Israel) was fractionated to hydrophobic acid (HoA) and hydrophobic neutral (HoN) fractions. The fractions were characterized and their sorptive capabilities for s-triazine herbicides and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) were studied. For all sorbates, the binding to the HoN fractions was much higher than to HoA fractions. The HoA fractions were more polar than the HoN fractions, containing a higher level of carboxylic functionalities. However the higher binding coefficients of atrazine (2-chloro-4-ethylamine-6-isopropylamino-s-triazine) and ametryn [2-(ethylamino)-4-isopropylamino-6-methyl-thio-s-triazine] obtained for the HoN fractions suggest that their sorption is governed by hydrophobic-like interactions rather than H bonding. The values of binding coefficients of PAHs measured for the HoN fractions were within the range reported for humic acids and much higher than other fractions, suggesting that this fraction plays an important role in the overall sorption of these compounds by DOM. Higher sorption coefficients were measured for the Netanya DOM sample containing higher level of hydrophobic fractions (HoA + HoN) than the Lachish DOM, suggesting that the sorption of hydrophobic organic compounds by DOM is governed by the level of these structural substances. The evaluation of mobility of organic pollutants by wastewater irrigation requires not only assessment of the total carbon concentration but also, more importantly, the content of the hydrophobic fractions.	1	pesticide
15763277	Quantitative morphological assessment reveals neuronal and glial deficits in hippocampus after a brief subtoxic exposure to chlorpyrifos in neonatal rats.	Neurochemical and behavioral studies indicate that the widely used organophosphorus insecticide, chlorpyrifos (CPF), evokes neurobehavioral teratogenicity with a wide window of vulnerability, ranging from embryonic life through postnatal development. Few studies have detailed morphological damage that corresponds to the operational deficits. We administered 5 mg/kg of CPF sc daily on postnatal days (PN) 11-14, a regimen that is devoid of systemic toxicity, but that elicits long-term cognitive impairment and disruption of cholinergic, catecholaminergic, and serotonergic synaptic function. On PN15 and 20, we conducted quantitative morphologic examinations of neurons and glia in CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus regions of the hippocampus. Although hippocampal morphology after CPF exposure was normal on gross observation, morphometric analysis revealed a significant overall reduction in the total number of neurons and glia. Superimposed on this basic effect, CPF elicited a delayed-onset increase in the neuron/glia ratio that emerged by PN20, connoting selective gliotoxicity. The alterations in cell numbers were accompanied by significant perikaryal swelling and by enhanced development of astrocytic processes. Layer thickness also showed delayed-onset effects of CPF, with thinning of the CA1 and CA3 layers and enlargement of the dentate gyrus. Our results indicate that there are subtle morphological changes in the juvenile rat brain after neonatal CPF exposure that are detectable only with quantitative analysis and that correlate with regional and cell-specific targets identified earlier in neurochemical studies. The simultaneous targeting of neurons and glia by CPF is likely to play an important role in its developmental neurotoxicant effects.	1	pesticide
15790248	Quantitative and qualitative hydrologic balance for a suburban watershed with a separate sewer system (Nantes, France).	A qualitative and quantitative budget at the outlet of the storm-water runoff system of a small suburban watershed is presented together with some data regarding waste-water. 445,000 m3 (34% of the rain-water volume) were drained by the storm-water runoff system and 40,879 m3 by the waste-water system from September 2002 to March 2004. Storm-water runoff is generally not heavily polluted with regard to trace metals but concentrations occasionally exceed the standards for surface water of good quality. On the contrary, pesticides (diuron and glyphosate) have very high concentrations especially in spring and autumn when their use is maximum. As the St Joseph storm-water runoff is finally discharged into the Erdre River, measures to reduce the use of these pollutants should be considered.	1	pesticide
15801218	[Synanthropic fleas (Siphonaptera) biting people in Moscow and control of their size].	The species composition of fleas attacking man in Moscow, the time course of changes in their size, and the efficiency of disinfecting measures against them have been studied. The basement premises are the commonest habitat of fleas. The absolute predominant species in these biotopes are Cetenocephalides felis (Boushe) whose feeders are dogs, synanthropic rodents, and humans, other than cats. Micropopulations of the fleas have been existed in some structures for more than 5 years (a follow-up period). A mathematical analysis of the factors that influence the efficiency of disinfestation has established that the most influential factors were the factors associated with the poor state of basement premises (the presence of a substrate for the breeding and shelter of fleas, the possibility of homeless animals and rodents, the feeders of fleas, to penetrate there) that reduce the residual effect of insecticides. Out of 15 applied insecticides, those based on chlorpyrifos, cypermethrin, and fenvalerate showed the highest efficacy. The combined use of liquid and powered insecticides is most effective in disinfestation. The treatments made in the periods when the number of fleas is small in the basements (April-May and August-September) provide the most prolonged residual effect.	1	pesticide
15822072	Field experiments for the evaluation of pesticide spray-drift on arable crops.	Two distinct approaches were used to characterise spray-drift during the application of atrazine and alachlor to a maize crop. The first consisted in determining the quantities which did not reach their target. A first experiment was carried in 2001 to improve the sampling method. A second experiment in 2002 showed that losses represented 46 and 38% for atrazine and alachlor, respectively. The second approach was to follow the spatiotemporal evolution of the cloud formed during application. The concentrations observed near the application zone during spraying reached 4.5 microg m(-3) for atrazine and 8.5 microg m(-3) for alachlor. With alachlor these concentrations decreased rapidly when increasing distance from the plot or time following treatment, whereas in the case of atrazine they stabilised rapidly (between 0.5 and 0.3 microg m(-3)) both in space and in time. Deposits around the plot were light and slightly higher for alachlor (from 20 to 130 microg m(-2)). Alachlor was more rapidly diluted in space than atrazine, reflecting a differentiated evolution of physical form during the process. Alachlor, being more volatile than atrazine, is quickly transferred to the gaseous phase which was more rapidly dispersed than aerosols.	1	pesticide
15841224	Toxicity of fruit fly baits to beneficial insects in citrus.	"Two fruit fly baits, Nu-Lure/malathion and GF-120 (Spinosad) were evaluated in the laboratory for non-target impacts on beneficial insects. Nu-Lure/malathion proved attractive and toxic to adults and larvae of the coccinellid species, Curinus coeruleus Mulsant, Cycloneda sanguinea L. and Harmonia axyridis Pallas, a lacewing species, Chrysoperla rufilabris Burmeister. The coccinellids Olla v-nigrum Mulsant, Scymnus sp. and nymphs of the insidious flower bug, Orius insidiosus (Say) did not succumb to Nu-Lure baits, even in no-choice situations. Nu-Lure was also attractive and lethal to adults of two aphidophagous flies; Leucopis sp. and the syrphid fly Pseudodorus clavatus (F.). Both Nu-Lure and GF-120 caused significant mortality to the parasitoid wasps, Aphytis melinus De Bach and Lysiphlebus testaceipes Cresson, within 24 h of exposure. However, GF-120 caused no significant mortality to any coccinellid in either choice or no-choice situations, despite considerable consumption of baits. Adults of P. clavatus tended to avoid GF-120, although mortality was significant in no-choice tests. Although larvae and adults of the lacewing C. rufilabris consumed GF-120, mortality was delayed; adults died 48 -96 h post-exposure and those exposed as larvae died two weeks later in the pupal stage. The Nu-Lure bait did not appear palatable to any of the insects, but the high concentration of malathion (195,000 ppm) caused rapid mortality to susceptible insects. Nu-Lure bait without malathion also caused significant mortality to flies and lacewings in cage trials. Although GF-120 bait appeared more benign overall, further research efforts are warranted to increase its selectivity for target fly species and reduce its attractiveness to parasitoids and lacewings. I conclude that the Florida ""fly free zone"" protocol in its current form is not compatible with an IPM approach to commercial citrus production."	1	pesticide
15888665	Blood acylpeptide hydrolase activity is a sensitive marker for exposure to some organophosphate toxicants.	Acylpeptide hydrolase (APH) unblocks N-acetyl peptides. It is a major serine hydrolase in rat blood, brain, and liver detected by derivatization with (3)H-diisopropyl fluorophosphate (DFP) or a biotinylated fluorophosphonate. Although APH does not appear to be a primary target of acute poisoning by organophosphorus (OP) compounds, the inhibitor specificity of this secondary target is largely unknown. This study fills the gap and emphasizes blood APH as a potential marker of OP exposure. The most potent in vitro inhibitors for human erythrocyte and mouse brain APH are DFP (IC(50) 11-17 nM), chlorpyrifos oxon (IC(50) 21-71 nM), dichlorvos (IC(50) 230-560 nM), naled (IC(50) 370-870 nM), and their analogs with modified alkyl substituents. (3)H-diisopropyl fluorophosphate is a potent inhibitor of mouse blood and brain APH in vivo (ED(50) 0.09-0.2 mg/kg and 0.02-0.03 mg/l for ip and vapor exposure, respectively). Mouse blood and brain APH and blood butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) are of similar sensitivity to DFP in vitro and in vivo (ip and vapor exposure), but APH inhibition is much more persistent in vivo (still >80% inhibition after 4 days). The inhibitory potency of OP pesticides in vivo in mice varies from APH selective (dichlorvos, naled, and trichlorfon), to APH and BChE selective (profenofos and tribufos), to ChE selective or nonselective (many commercial insecticides). Sarin administered ip at a lethal dose to guinea pigs inhibits blood acetylcholinesterase and BChE completely but erythrocyte APH only partially. Blood APH activity is therefore a sensitive marker for exposure to some but not all OP pesticides and chemical warfare agents.	1	pesticide
15889742	Efficacy of simulated barrier treatments against laboratory colonies of Pharaoh ant.	Five selected insecticides were applied to four substrates and evaluated in laboratory studies for repellency and toxicity against the Pharaoh ant, Monomorium pharaonis (L.). We tested both repellent and nonrepellent formulations on outdoor (concrete and mulch) and indoor (ceramic and vinyl) substrates. Repellency was evaluated using a behavioral bioassay in which colonies were given a choice to leave the treated zone and move into empty nests provided in the untreated zone. We used a novel experimental design whereby ants walked on a Slinky coil suspended from a metal support frame, thus permitting a long foraging distance with a minimum use of space and resources. Cypermethrin, a repellent pyrethroid insecticide, resulted in colony budding, although the response was delayed. Toxicity of insecticides was evaluated as worker, queen, and brood mortality. The most effective treatment was fipronil, which provided 100% reduction in pretreatment activity by 2 d posttreatment on both concrete and mulch. Chlorfenapyr was highly effective on both outdoor and indoor substrates. Significant substrate effects were observed with insecticides applied to nonabsorbent substrates (ceramic tile), which performed better than insecticides applied to absorbent substrates (vinyl tile). Other highly absorbent materials (mulch and concrete), however, did not reduce insecticide efficacy. This is because ants relocated nests into and/or under these attractive nesting materials, thus increasing their exposure to toxic insecticide residues. Our results demonstrate efficacy of nonrepellent liquid insecticides as indoor treatments for the control of Pharaoh ants and possibly as exterior perimeter treatments.	1	pesticide
15895843	Effects of pesticides on the peripheral and central nervous system in tobacco farmers in Malaysia: studies on peripheral nerve conduction, brain-evoked potentials and computerized posturography.	We examined the effects of pesticides on the central and peripheral nervous system in the setting of a tobacco farm at a developing country. Maximal motor and sensory nerve conduction velocities (MCV and SCV, respectively) in the median, sural and tibial nerves, postural sway, and brain-evoked potentials (auditory event-related and visual-evoked potentials) were measured in 80 male tobacco farmers and age- and sex-matched 40 controls in Kelantan, Malaysia. Median SCV (finger-wrist) in farmers using Delsen (mancozeb, dithiocarbamate fungicide), who showed significant decrease of serum cholinesterase activities, were significantly lower compared with the controls. Sural SCV in farmers using Fastac (alpha-cypermethrin, pyrethroid insecticide) and median MCV (elbow-wrist) in farmers using Tamex (butralin, dinitroaniline herbicide) were significantly slowed compared with their respective controls. In Delsen (mancozeb, dithiocarbamate) users, the power of postural sway of 0-1 Hz was significantly larger than that in the controls both in the anterior-posterior direction with eyes open and in the right-left direction with eyes closed. The former type of sway was also significantly increased in Tamaron (methamidophos, organophosphorus insecticide) users. In conclusion, nerve conduction velocities and postural sway seem to be sensitive indicators of the effects of pesticides on the central and peripheral nervous system.	1	pesticide
15907946	Uptake and depuration of PAHs and chlorinated pesticides by semi-permeable membrane devices (SPMDs) and green-lipped mussels (Perna viridis).	Semi-batch seawater experiments were conducted to follow the uptake and release of selected PAHs (anthracene, fluorathene, pyrene and B[a]P) and organochlorine pesticides (alpha-HCH, aldrin, dieldrin, p,p'-DDT) in semi-permeable membrane devices (SPMDs) and green-lipped mussels (Perna viridis). Mathematical models were applied to describe the uptake and elimination curves of the contaminants for SPMDs, and kinetic parameters, such as uptake rate constants, and equilibrium triolein/water partitioning coefficients were calculated. SPMD data showed a good fit to estimate rate constant and partition coefficient equations, but only those contaminants which partitioned mainly in the dissolved phase (alpha-HCH and dieldrin) were well explained for mussels. Poor conformity of the other contaminants indicated mussels uptake by routes other than diffusion, such as ingestion of algae. An apparent equilibrium state was only noted for alpha-HCH in mussels. Aldrin was not detected in mussels in the first few days of exposure, indicating potential metabolism of this compound. B[a]P was not detected in the triolein of SPMDs, which suggests that the membrane may act as a reservoir. Loss of spiked B[a]P from the triolein was evident in a depuration experiment, which may indicate transfer to the membrane. Rate constants for mussels were higher than those for SPMDs, but the reverse was true for partition coefficients. Overall, mussels and SPMDs had similar uptake rates for all compounds in this study, excluding p,p'-DDT and dieldrin. Contaminant elimination took place more rapidly in mussels, implying that SPMDs are better candidates for detecting episodic discharge of organic contaminants.	1	pesticide
15924322	Determination of carbofuran by flow-injection with chemiluminescent detection.	It was found that carbofuran enhances the chemiluminescence reaction between sodium sulphite and Ce(4+) in sulphuric acid, and this formed the basis of a flow-injection system with chemiluminescence detection for determination of carbofuran. Under optimum conditions, the enhanced chemiluminescence intensity was linear, with the concentration of carbofuran in the range 8 x 10(-8)-1.0 x 10(-5) g[sol ]mL, with a detection limit of 2.84 x 10(-8) g[sol ]mL (3 s[sol ]k). The proposed method was applied to the analysis of carbofuran in cabbage, with satisfactory results.	1	pesticide
15926538	Gas-phase concentrations of current-use pesticides in Iowa.	Local and regional atmospheric transport of current-use pesticides is an important source of these compounds to nontarget plants and ecosystems. Current-use pesticides were measured at urban, rural, and suburban sites in eastern Iowa during 2000-2002. The most detected compounds were hexachlorobenzene and trifluralin, which were found in 89% and 78% of the samples, respectively. As expected, many pesticides showed a strong seasonal trend with the most detections and highest concentrations occurring during the spring and early summer. The average detected concentrations of five heavily used herbicides were 0.52 ng/ m3 for trifluralin, 4.6 ng/m3 for acetochlor, 2.3 ng/m3 for metolachlor, 1.1 ng/m3 for alachlor, 1.7 ng/m3 for pendimethalin, and 1.2 ng/m3 for atrazine. The most frequently detected insecticides were phorate and chlorpyrifos, which were found in 20% and 19% of the samples, respectively. The average phorate and chlorpyrifos concentrations were 25 ng/m3 and 1.0 ng/m3, respectively. The maximum phorate concentration, the highest measured for all pesticides, was 91.2 ng/m3. The most frequently detected current-use fungicides were chloroneb and etridiazole, which were found in 14% and 10% of the samples, respectively.	1	pesticide
15926540	Measuring and predicting environmental concentrations of pesticides in air after application to paddy water systems.	In this study, the volatilization of five pesticides applied to an artificial flooded paddy field was assessed using the theoretical profile shape (TPS) and the integrate horizontal flux (IHF) techniques. The dataset derived was utilized to improve the volatilization routine of the rice water quality (RICEWQ) model. The masses of pesticides ethoprophos, procymidone, metalaxyl, chlorpyrifos, and chlorpyrifos methyl volatilized from paddy water and their concentrations in paddy water were determined for a period of 6 d after application. The highest and lowest volatilization losses were observed for chlorpyrifos and metalaxyl, respectively, accounting for 3.3% and 0.03% of their initially applied amount. A rapid pesticide dissipation was evident in paddy water during the study period. The RICEWQ model was used to simulate the fate of pesticides in the artificial paddy system. The Kvolat, an empiric coefficient used by the model as an input parameter, was calculated for all pesticides through model calibration. RICEWQ simulated well the fate of pesticides in paddy water. A significant regression correlation between Henry's law constant (Hk) and Kvolat of the studied compounds was established which could facilitate the parametrization of the model for describing pesticide volatilization.	1	pesticide
15937663	Development of a stir-bar-sorptive extraction-liquid desorption-large-volume injection capillary gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric method for pyrethroid pesticides in water samples.	Stir-bar-sorptive extraction followed by liquid desorption and large-volume injection capillary gas chromatography with mass spectrometric detection (SBSE-LD-LVI-GC-MS), had been applied for the determination of ultra-traces of eight pyrethroid pesticides (acrinathrin, cypermethrin, deltamethrin, esfenvalerate, fenpropathrin, fenvalerate, and permethrin cis and trans isomers) in water samples. Instrumental calibration for selected-ion monitoring acquisition and conditions that could affect the SBSE-LD efficiency are fully discussed. By performing systematic assays on 30-mL water samples spiked at the 0.10 microg L(-1) level it was established that stir-bars coated with 47 microL polydimethylsiloxane, an equilibrium time of 60 min (750 rpm), 5% methanol as organic modifier, and acetonitrile as back-extraction solvent, provided the best analytical performance to monitor pyrethroid pesticides in water matrices. Good accuracy (81.8-105.0%) and remarkable reproducibility (<11.7%) were obtained, and the experimental recovery data were in good agreement with the theoretical equilibrium described by octanol-water partition coefficients (log K(O/W)), with the exception of acrinathrin for which lower yields were measured. Excellent linear dynamic ranges between 25 and 400 ng L(-1) (r2>0.994), low quantification (3.0-7.5 ng L(-1)) and detection (1.0-2.5 ng L(-1)) limits were also achieved for the eight pyrethroid pesticides studied. The method was successfully used for analysis of tap-water and groundwater matrices spiked at the 0.10 microg L(-1), revealing the suitability of the method for determination of pyrethroid pesticides in real samples. The method was shown be reliable and sensitive and a small volume of sample was required to monitor pyrethroids at ultra-trace levels, in compliance with international regulatory directives on water quality.	1	pesticide
15951093	Carbofuran and malathion inhibit nucleotide hydrolysis in zebrafish (Danio rerio) brain membranes.	Carbofuran and malathion are broad spectrum pesticides widely used in agricultural practice throughout the world. Toxicity of these pesticides has been correlated with their inhibitory effects on acetylcholinesterase activity. Nucleotides are extracellular signaling molecules, which trigger multiple biological effects. Studies have demonstrated the co-transmission of acetylcholine and ATP at the nerve endings. The control of neurotransmitter ATP levels is promoted by enzymes named ectonucleotidases, which include nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase (NTPDase) family and ecto-5'-nucleotidase. Since acetylcholine and ATP are co-released at the synapse and the acetylcholinesterase inhibition is an important target for pesticide action, here we verified the effect of exposure in vitro and in vivo to carbofuran and malathion on ectonucleotidase activities from brain membranes of zebrafish. To verify if carbofuran and malathion have a direct inhibitory effect on NTPDase and 5'-nucleotidase activities in brain membranes of zebrafish, we have tested in vitro concentrations of pesticides varying from 0.25 to 5 mM. Carbofuran, in vitro, inhibited ATP and ADP hydrolysis in an uncompetitive manner, but no effect was observed on AMP hydrolysis. Malathion decreased ATP and ADP hydrolysis in competitive and an uncompetitive manner, respectively, but not altered AMP hydrolysis. After exposure to carbofuran (50 and 500 microg/L) during 7 days, ADP hydrolysis was significantly decreased in both concentrations tested (by 19 and 24.5%, respectively). Malathion, at 500 microg/L, was able to inhibit ADP and AMP hydrolysis (by 28 and 58.5%, respectively). This study has shown that ectonucleotidases from brain membranes of zebrafish can be a potential target for pesticide neurotoxicity.	1	pesticide
15969462	Efficacy of various synthetic pyrethroid-impregnated encasement materials against house dust mite under laboratory conditions.	The acaricidal activity of synthetic pyrethroid and benzyl benzoate against Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus was examined in the laboratory, using a specially designed test set up. On the basis of median lethal dose (LD50) values, the compound found to be most toxic to D. pteronyssinus was benzyl benzoate (LD50 = 50 mg/m2), followed by permethrin (LD50 = 76.7 mg/m2), deltamethrin (LD50 = 146.7 mg/m2), esbioallenthrin (LD50 = 186.6 mg/m2) and lamdacyhalothrin (LD50 = 756.6 mg/m2). Very low toxicity was observed with bifenthrin (LD50 = 5157.8 mg/m2). A laboratory control trial was also carried out to compare the acaricidal activity (residual effect) of four pyrethroids impregnated on woven and non-woven encasement materials against house dust mites during a 4-month period. Of the pyrethroids used in this study, esbioallenthrin demonstrated the highest acaricidal activity, and of the pyrethroid impregnated materials, the non-woven encasement material was more effective than the woven encasement material.	1	pesticide
15988628	Joint toxicity of triazine herbicides and organophosphate insecticides to the midge Chironomus tentans.	A series of recent studies demonstrated that the triazine herbicide atrazine, although not itself acutely toxic, potentiated the toxicity of certain organophosphate insecticides (OPs) to the midge Chironomus tentans. In the current study, a series of triazine herbicides and triazine herbicide degradation products were tested to determine if other triazines potentiate OP toxicity to midges. Chlorpyrifos and diazinon were the OPs tested. Toxicity tests were conducted using a factorial design and analysis of variance to statistically determine if each triazine had an effect on expected toxicity. Log-probit procedures were also used to evaluate the magnitude of change in median effective concentration (EC50) values during coexposure with each triazine. All of the triazine herbicides tested (atrazine, simazine, cyanazine, and hexazinone) were capable of potentiating the toxicity of the OPs, whereas the degradation products (s-triazine, deethylatrazine, and deisopropylatrazine) had less effect. In most cases, a triazine concentration of 100 microg/L was necessary to significantly increase OP toxicity, and higher concentrations of triazine caused a greater degree of potentiation. Changes in EC50 values ranged from no change to a 2.5-fold increase in toxicity. Generally, EC50 values changed by less than a factor of 2, indicating that the effect may be of limited concern in regard to future risk assessments of OPs.	1	pesticide
15991261	Protective effect of black tea extract on the levels of lipid peroxidation and antioxidant enzymes in liver of mice with pesticide-induced liver injury.	Sub-acute hepatotoxicity was induced in mice by exposure to pesticides. The effect of pretreatment with aqueous black tea extract on lipid peroxidation and antioxidants in the liver was investigated. Administering a combination dose of chlorpyriphos and cypermethrin (20 mg kg(-1) each) on alternate days over a 15-day period to male mice resulted in induction of sub-acute toxicity as reflected by elevated levels of liver damage marker enzymes alkaline phosphatase(ALP), aspartate transaminase(AST) and alanine transaminase(ALT). Significantly elevated levels of lipid peroxidation were observed in the experimental group (group III) as compared with control mice. Decreased activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), reduced glutathione (GSH), total thiol, glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase(GR) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) were also observed in pesticide-treated as compared to control mice. Aqueous black tea extract was given as a pretreatment to group IV mice at a dose of 200 mg ml(-1) polyphenols before the pesticide dose, which significantly decreased the levels of lipid peroxidation and significantly elevated the activities of SOD, CAT, GSH, total thiol, GPx, GR and GST in liver to levels similar to the controls. Thus, the data offer support for the claim that the central mechanism of pesticide action occurs via changes in cellular oxidative status and shows conclusively that supplementation with black tea extract protects against the free radical-mediated oxidative stress in hepatocytes of animals with pesticide-induced liver injury.	1	pesticide
15992859	A preliminary assessment of consumer's exposure to pesticide residues in fisheries products.	The fisheries products in this study comprise fish, bivalve, crustacean and cephalopod collected from different types of markets in Taiwan between the years 2001 and 2003. A total of 91 pesticide residues belonging to four major pesticide groups were tested and analyzed. The test results show that 65.40% of fish, 93.55% of shellfish, 84.92% of crustacean and 98.33% of cephalopod samples contain no detectable residues. There are only two kinds (organochlorine and organophosphate) of totally six pesticides (DDTs, dieldrin, chlorpyrifos, fenitrotion, fenthion and prothion) that have been detected from the fisheries products in this study. For there were pesticides present in the fish products, consumption of fisheries product there was no zero risk. But the exposure of consumer did not exceed the acceptable daily intakes (ADI). For male, there was the highest risk in exposure to dieldrin, which the percentage of ADI was 93.56%. This study also suggests that a yearly monitoring program for organophosphate pesticide residues in fish is necessity.	1	pesticide
15998858	Fertilizer, tillage, and dairy manure contributions to nitrate and herbicide leaching.	"Few studies have examined the water quality impact of manure use in no-tillage systems. A lysimeter study in continuous corn (Zea mays L.) was performed on Maury silt loam (fine, mixed, semiactive, mesic Typic Paleudalf) to evaluate the effect(s) of tillage (no-till [NT] and chisel-disk [CD]), nitrogen fertilizer rate (0 and 168 kg N ha(-1)), and dairy manure application timing (none, spring, fall, or fall plus spring) on NO3-N, atrazine (2-chloro-4-ethylamino-6-isopropylamino-s-triazine), and alachlor [2-chloro-2'-6'-diethyl-N-(methoxymethyl)acetanilide] concentrations in leachate collected at a 90-cm depth. Herbicides were highest immediately after application, declining to less than 4 mug L(-1) in about two months. Manure and manure timing by tillage interactions had little effect on leachate herbicides; rather, the data suggest that macropores rapidly transmitted atrazine and alachlor through the soil. Tillage usually did not significantly affect leachate NO3-N, but no-tillage tended to cause higher NO(3)-N. Manuring caused higher NO3-N concentrations; spring manuring had more impact than fall, but fall manure contained about 78% of the N found in spring manure. Nitrate under spring ""only fertilizer"" treatment exceeded 10 mg L(-1) 38% of the time, compared with 15% for spring only manure treatment. After three years, manured soil leachate NO3-N exceeded that for soil receiving only N fertilizer. Soil profile (90 cm) NO3-N after corn harvest exceeding 22 kg N ha(-1) was associated with winter leachate NO3-N greater than 10 mg N L(-1). Manure can be used effectively in conservation tillage systems on this and similar soils. Accounting for all N inputs, including previous manure applications, will be important."	1	pesticide
16007003	Toxicity of chlorpyrifos and chlorpyrifos oxon in a transgenic mouse model of the human paraoxonase (PON1) Q192R polymorphism.	OBJECTIVES: The Q192R polymorphism of paraoxonase (PON1) has been shown to affect hydrolysis of organophosphorus compounds. The Q192 and R192 alloforms exhibit equivalent catalytic efficiencies of hydrolysis for diazoxon, the oxon form of the pesticide (DZ). However, the R192 alloform has a higher catalytic efficiency of hydrolysis than does the Q192 alloform for chlorpyrifos oxon (CPO), the oxon form of the pesticide chlorpyrifos (CPS). The current study examined the relevance of these observations for in-vivo exposures to chlorpyrifos and chlorpyrifos oxon. METHODS: Using a transgenic mouse model we examined the relevance of the Q192R polymorphism for exposure to CPS and CPO in vivo. Transgenic mice were generated that expressed either human PON1Q192 or PON1R192 at equivalent levels, in the absence of endogenous mouse PON1. Dose-response and time course experiments were performed on adult mice exposed dermally to CPS or CPO. Morbidity and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in the brain and diaphragm were determined in the first 24 h following exposure. RESULTS: Mice expressing PON1Q192 were significantly more sensitive to CPO, and to a lesser extent CPS, than were mice expressing PON1R192. The time course of inhibition following exposure to 1.2 mg/kg CPO revealed maximum inhibition of brain AChE at 6-12 h, with PON1R192, PON1Q192, and PON1 mice exhibiting 40, 70 and 85% inhibition, respectively, relative to control mice. The effect of PON1 removal on the dose-response curve for CPS exposure was remarkably consistent with a PBPK/PD model of CPS exposure. CONCLUSION: These results indicate that individuals expressing only the PON1Q192 allele would be more sensitive to the adverse effects of CPO or CPS exposure, especially if they are expressing a low level of plasma PON1Q192.	1	pesticide
16022321	Time trends in mortality for thiamethoxam and fipronil against Formosan subterranean termites and eastern subterranean termites (Isoptera: Rhinotermitidae).	Time trends in mortality for the Formosan subterranean termite, Coptotermes formosanus Shiraki, and eastern subterranean termite, Reticulitermes flavipes (Kollar), were determined for thiamethoxam and fipronil. Filter paper treated with 50 ppm thiamethoxam led to >80% mortality in 2-4 d for R. flavipes, whereas 5 ppm thiamethoxam resulted in >80% mortality in 2-3 d for C. formosanus. Filter paper treated with 1 ppm fipronil resulted in >80% mortality in 5 d for R. flavipes and 9 d for C. formosanus, indicating that thiamethoxam is faster acting than fipronil. As concentration decreases for slow-acting termiticides, the time required for adverse effects to be fully expressed increases.	1	pesticide
16033991	Effects of chronic dietary and repeated acute exposure to chlorpyrifos on learning and sustained attention in rats.	Cognitive and motor impairment often follow acute poisoning with an organophosphorous (OP) pesticide. However, the persistence of these effects and the conditions necessary for their appearance are not clear: two specific concerns are whether symptomatic poisoning is necessary for persistent effects, and whether inhibition of cholinesterase (ChE) activity is a protective metric of OP exposure. This study examined the effects of chronic dietary and repeated high-level acute exposure to the pesticide chlorpyrifos (diethyl 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridyl phosphorothionate, CPF) on learning and attention. Beginning at 3 months of age, male Long-Evans rats received dietary CPF at a daily dose of 0, 1, or 5 mg/kg for 1 year. Half of each dietary group also received an acute oral dose of CPF (initial dose at 60 mg/kg, 5 doses at 45 mg/kg) every 2 months. Beginning 2 weeks before the fourth acute dose, behavioral assessments were conducted on the eight rats in each of the six exposure groups (0-Oil, 0-CPF, 1-Oil, 1-CPF, 5-Oil, and 5-CPF). Using an auto-shaping procedure, the groups learned to press a lever for food in the following order: 5-Oil, 5-CPF, 1-Oil, and 0-Oil. The 0-CPF and 1-CPF groups did not learn the response in three 50-trial sessions. Chronic CPF did not affect acquisition of other behaviors required by a signal detection task (SDT) designed to assess sustained attention. The sixth acute CPF dose significantly disrupted the SDT in all dosed groups. Two months after the end of dosing, performance of the SDT was impaired in the 5-CPF group. These data suggest that learning the contingency between an action and reward may be accelerated by chronic exposure to CPF and inhibited by previous symptomatic exposure to CPF, and that persistent cognitive impairment may follow if CPF exposure inhibits brain ChE activity and is accompanied by acute doses sufficient to induce signs of toxicity.	1	pesticide
16041722	Environmental fate of herbicides trifluralin, metazachlor, metamitron and sulcotrione compared with that of glyphosate, a substitute broad spectrum herbicide for different glyphosate-resistant crops.	The introduction of crops resistant to the broad spectrum herbicide glyphosate, N-(phosphonomethyl)glycine, may constitute an answer to increased contamination of the environment by herbicides, since it should reduce the total amount of herbicide needed and the number of active ingredients. However, there are few published data comparing the fate of glyphosate in the environment, particularly in soil, with that of substitute herbicides. The objective of this study is to compare the fate of glyphosate in three soils with that of four herbicides frequently used on crops that might be glyphosate resistant: trifluralin, alpha,alpha,alpha-trifluoro-2,6-dinitro-N,N-dipropyl-p-toluidine, and metazachlor, 2-chloro-N-(pyrazol-1-ylmethyl)acet-2',6'-xylidide for oilseed rape, metamitron, 4-amino-4,5-dihydro-3-methyl-6-phenyl-1,2,4-triazin-5-one for sugarbeet and sulcotrione, 2-(2-chloro-4-mesylbenzoyl)cyclohexane-1,3-dione for maize. The distribution of herbicides between the volatilized, mineralized, extractable and non-extractable fractions was studied, along with the formation of their metabolites in laboratory experiments using 14C-labelled herbicides, over a period of 140 days. The main dissipation pathways were mineralization for glyphosate and sulcotrione, volatilization for trifluralin and non-extractable residues formation for metazachlor and metamitron. The five herbicides had low persistence. Glyphosate had the shortest half-life, which varied with soil type, whereas trifluralin had the longest. The half-lives of metazachlor and sulcotrione were comparable, whereas that of metamitron was highly variable. Glyphosate, metazachlor and sulcotrione were degraded into persistent metabolites. Low amounts of trifluralin and metamitron metabolites were observed. At 140 days after herbicide applications, the amounts of glyphosate and its metabolite residues in soils were the lowest in two soils, but not in the third soil, a loamy sand with low pH. The environmental advantage in using glyphosate due to its rapid degradation is counterbalanced by accumulation of aminomethylphosphonic acid specifically in the context of extensive use of glyphosate.	1	pesticide
16050585	Effects of lambda-cyhalothrin in two ditch microcosm systems of different trophic status.	The fate and effects of the pyrethroid insecticide lambda-cyhalothrin were compared in mesotrophic (macrophyte-dominated) and eutrophic (phytoplankton-dominated) ditch microcosms (approximately 0.5 m3). Lambda-cyhalothrin was applied three times at one-week intervals at concentrations of 10, 25, 50, 100, and 250 ng/L. The rate of dissipation of lambda-cyhalothrin in the water column of the two types of test systems was similar. After 1 d, only 30% of the amount applied remained in the water phase. Initial, direct effects were observed primarily on arthropod taxa. The most sensitive species was the phantom midge (Chaoborus obscuripes). Threshold levels for slight and transient direct toxic effects were similar (10 ng/L) between types of test systems. At treatment levels of 25 ng/L and higher, apparent population and community responses occurred. At treatments of 100 and 250 ng/L, the rate of recovery of the macroinvertebrate community was lower in the macrophyte-dominated systems, primarily because of a prolonged decline of the amphipod Gammarus pulex. This species occurred at high densities only in the macrophyte-dominated enclosures. Indirect effects (e.g., increase of rotifers and microcrustaceans) were more pronounced in the plankton-dominated test systems, particularly at treatment levels of 25 ng/L and higher.	1	pesticide
16082949	Environmental fate of pharmaceuticals in water/sediment systems.	In recent years there has been growing interest on the occurrence and the fate of pharmaceuticals in the aquatic environment. Nevertheless, few data are available covering the fate of the pharmaceuticals in the water/sediment compartment. In this study, the environmental fate of 10 selected pharmaceuticals and pharmaceutical metabolites was investigated in water/sediment systems including both the analysis of water and sediment. The experiments covered the application of four 14C-labeled pharmaceuticals (diazepam, ibuprofen, iopromide, and paracetamol) for which radio-TLC analysis was used as well as six nonlabeled compounds (carbamazepine, clofibric acid, 10,11-dihydro-10,11-dihydroxycarbamazepine, 2-hydroxyibuprofen, ivermectin, and oxazepam), which were analyzed via LC-tandem MS. Ibuprofen, 2-hydroxyibuprofen, and paracetamol displayed a low persistence with DT50 values in the water/sediment system < or =20 d. The sediment played a key role in the elimination of paracetamol due to the rapid and extensive formation of bound residues. A moderate persistence was found for ivermectin and oxazepam with DT50 values of 15 and 54 d, respectively. Lopromide, for which no corresponding DT50 values could be calculated, also exhibited a moderate persistence and was transformed into at least four transformation products. For diazepam, carbamazepine, 10,11-dihydro-10,11-dihydroxycarbamazepine, and clofibric acid, system DT90 values of >365 d were found, which exhibit their high persistence in the water/sediment system. An elevated level of sorption onto the sediment was observed for ivermectin, diazepam, oxazepam, and carbamazepine. Respective Koc values calculated from the experimental data ranged from 1172 L x kg(-1) for ivermectin down to 83 L x kg(-1) for carbamazepine.	1	pesticide
16082954	Gonadal development of larval male Xenopus laevis exposed to atrazine in outdoor microcosms.	The potential effects of atrazine on gonadal development in metamorphs and subadults of the African clawed frog (Xenopus laevis) were studied under conditions of natural photoperiod and temperatures in outdoor microcosms from August 2002 to June 2003 in South Africa. Triplicate 1100 L microcosms for each nominal concentration of 0.0, 1, 10, and 25 microg of atrazine/L were used. Measured atrazine concentrations varied <25% throughout the study, and no atrazine was detected in the control microcosms. Tadpoles developed well at all concentrations. On the basis of histological examination of testes of recently metamorphosed stage 66 frogs, 57% of the individuals in the reference group exhibited testicular oocytes as compared with 57, 59, and 39% of the 1, 10, and 25 microg/L atrazine groups, respectively. The average prevalence of testicular oocytes for all of the treatments including the controls was 54% in a single testis, while, in 35% of individuals, testicular oocytes were observed in both testes. The number of testicular oocytes per individual ranged from 0 to 58 with means of 9.5, 9.8, 8.5, and 11.1 forthe 0.0, 1, 10, and 25 microg of atrazine/L groups, respectively. Ten months after metamorphosis, another subset of juveniles was examined, and the maximum number of testicular oocytes observed was five in one animal. The presence of testicular oocytes was not related to exposure to atrazine and may be a natural phenomenon during ontogeny.	1	pesticide
16085276	New evidences for old biomarkers: effects of several xenobiotics on EROD and AChE activities in Zebra mussel (Dreissena polymorpha).	The biomarker approach is widely used both in vertebrates and invertebrates for environmental biomonitoring, because it can supply an integrated response for multi-xenobiotics contamination. However, the use of biomarkers requires the identification of every possible variation that can influence the biochemical response, because ecosystems are generally subject to a mixture of pollutants, which can create additive, opposite or competitive effects. In recent years, there has been considerable interest in the use of biomarkers within marine bivalves, while very few data are available for freshwater molluscs. The aim of this research was to investigate changes on EROD and AChE activities in the freshwater bivalve Zebra mussel (Dreissena polymorpha) exposed to different pollutants (Arochlor 1260, CB 153 and 126, pp'DDT, chlorpyrifos, carbaryl) at laboratory conditions, in order to standardize the analytical procedures and to highlight eventual interferences on enzyme activities. Chemical concentrations in the mussel soft tissues were analyzed by GC/MS-MS. Main results showed a significant induction of EROD activity when mussels were exposed to 100 ng/l of PCB mixture of Arochlor 1260 and dioxin-like CB 126, but this congener showed also a clear competitive inhibition after 48 h of exposure. Surprisingly, pp'DDT determined a significant decrease of basal EROD activity after only 24 h of exposure, even if it was not possible to discriminate between the effect of the parent compound and that of its metabolites (DDD, DDE). We also found an interaction between the organophosphate insecticide chlorpyrifos, which does not directly decrease the AChE activity, and terbutilazine. This herbicide increased the biotransformation of the organophosphate compound to its oxidized metabolite (oxon), a much stronger AChE inhibitor. The possible use of the oxime Pyridine-2-Aldoxime Methochloride (2-PAM) to bring back the catalytic activity to basal levels was also demonstrated.	1	pesticide
16106092	Laboratory evaluation of fipronil against Periplaneta americana & Blattella germanica.	BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVE: In cockroach control, bait formulations are extensively used. Fipronil is one of the broad spectrum insecticides from phenyl pyrazole family available in bait formulation. The compound has been tested under field conditions. However, information on its effectiveness on different surfaces and at various density levels is not known. Therefore, the efficacy of a new formulation of fipronil 0.03 per cent (Goliath gel) was tested under laboratory conditions. METHODS: The bait formulation was tested against Periplaneta americana at the dosages of 0.025, 0.05, 0.1, 0.15 and 0.2 g/m(2), and Blatella germanica at 0.025, 0.05, 0.075, 0.1 and 0.125 g/m(2) on wood, cement, mud and thatch surface with three density levels of cockroaches viz., 5, 10 and 20 numbers/m(2). Mortality after 24 h of exposure was observed daily for five days. RESULTS: Rate of mortality varied between 16.0 and 96.0 per cent in P. americana and 51.0 and 100.0 per cent in B. germanica on different surfaces tested. The mortality rate of P. americana increased line rarly from the dosage 0.025g to 0.15 g/m(2) and at 0.2 g/m(2), it was independent. The LD(80) values of the gel against P. americana at high density were 0.208, 0.246, 0.361 and 0.466 g/m(2) on wood, cement, mud and thatch surfaces, whereas against B. germanica the values were 0.079, 0.081, 0.089 and 0.055 g/m(2) respectively, indicating a significantly (P<0.001) higher efficacy of Goliath gel against B. germanica than P. americana. The results of fitting logistic regression model to the observed percentage mortality with log dose and cockroach density as explanatory variables satisfactorily described the observations at all densities on each surface. The pattern of response to increasing dosages was similar for all the three density levels on each of the surfaces in P. americana and B. germanica. INTERPRETATION & CONCLUSION: The effectiveness assessed against P. americana and B. germanica using logistic regression model suggested that the gel when applied at the appropriate dosages on wood, cement, mud and thatch surfaces could cause >80 per cent mortality of these species in dwellings having these types of surfaces.	1	pesticide
16114235	Fast gas chromatography with solid phase extraction clean-up for ultratrace analysis of pesticide residues in baby food.	A sample preparation method based on single solvent phase extraction and solid-phase extraction (SPE-NH2) clean-up is studied in combination with fast capillary gas chromatography (GC) to determine 18 selected pesticides belonging to various chemical classes in apples, the common raw material for baby food production and baby food, at the concentration level < or = 10 microg/kg maximum residual limit (MRL). Possibilities of mass spectrometry (MS) detector and electron capture detector (ECD) in fast gas chromatography (GC) of samples with complex matrice at ultra trace levels of pesticide residues were studied and compared. MS detection in single ion monitoring (SIM) mode provided higher selectivity compared to ECD. Optimisation of extraction as well as the simplifying of the whole process of sample preparation was carried out. Recoveries obtained at concentration level of 5 microg/kg (the required value for limit of quantification (LOQ) in baby food) were >90%, except of dimethoate (77.7%) and captan (46.4%) with MS detection. The obtained LOQs were at least 1 order lower than 5 microg/kg for the majority of compounds. The repeatability of gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) measurements of the matrix matched standards expressed as relative standard deviation was <11% except of captan and cypermethrin.	1	pesticide
16119553	High resistance to pyrethroid insecticides associated with ineffective field treatments in Triatoma infestans (Hemiptera: Reduviidae) from Northern Argentina.	Field populations of Triatoma infestans Klug were collected during 2002 from four villages in northern Argentina (El Chorro, La Toma, El Sauzal, and Salvador Mazza), after application of deltamethrin and other pyrethroids was ineffective. High levels of resistance to the pyrethroid insecticides deltamethrin, beta-cypermethrin, beta-cyfluthrin, and lambda-cyhalothrin were detected in all of the evaluated populations. The resistance ratio to pyrethroids determined by topical application ranged from 50.5 (deltamethrin, El Sauzal) to 667.6 (beta-cyfluthrin, Salvador Mazza). None of the pyrethroid-resistant insects was resistant to the organophosphorus insecticide fenitrothion. Topical application of piperonyl butoxide to the most deltamethrin-resistant population (Salvador Mazza) led to slight reduction in levels of resistance. Activity of P450 monooxygenase, measured in individual insects through ethoxycoumarine-O-deethylase, showed a slight but noticeable difference in the distribution of activities between susceptible and resistant populations. The total percentage of insects below 0.48 pmol of 7-OH coumarine/min/ insect was 36.4 for Salvador Mazza population and 64.3 pmol of 7-OH coumarine/min/insect for CIPEIN strain. Whereas a low level of resistance to deltamethrin was previously related to monooxygenase activity in T. infestans, the high levels of resistance shown by these populations seem to involve monooxygenase in combination with other resistance mechanisms, for example, insensitivity of nervous membrane. Research on T. infestans resistance is in progress to improve Chagas vector control programs in Latin America and to implement resistance management strategies.	1	pesticide
16132866	Expression and characterization of carboxylesterase E4 gene from peach-potato aphid (Myzus persicae) for degradation of carbaryl and malathion.	An abridged carboxylesterase E4 (CbE E4) gene was cloned from the peach-potato aphid, Myzus persicae, by reverse transcription-PCR and subcloned into the expression vector pET28b. The abridged CbE E4 gene was successfully expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3). The recombinant CbE E4 hydrolyzed beta-naphthyl acetate and Carbaryl by 64% within 2.5 h, Malathion by 80% within 1.25 h. However, the hydrolysis of other pesticides (Dichlorovos, Parathion, Pirimicarb and Deltamethrin) was not detected.	1	pesticide
16138779	Use of permethrin eradicated the tropical rat mite (Ornithonyssus bacoti) from a colony of mutagenized and transgenic mice.	The tropical rat mite, Ornithonyssus bacoti, was identified in a colony of mutagenized and transgenic mice at a large academic institution. O. bacoti is an obligate, blood-feeding ectoparasite with an extensive host range. Although the source of the infestation was likely feral rodents, none were found in the room housing infested mice. We hypothesize that construction on the floor above the vivarium and compromised ceiling integrity within the animal room provided for vermin entry and subsequent O. bacoti infestation. O. bacoti infestation was eliminated by environmental decontamination with synthetic pyrethroids and weekly application of 7.4% permethrin-impregnated cotton balls to mouse caging for five consecutive weeks. Visual examination of the macroenvironment, microenvironment, and colony for 38 days confirmed the efficacy of treatment. We noted no treatment-related toxicities or effects on colony production.	1	pesticide
16139968	Evaluation of different biological test systems to assess the toxicity of metabolites from fungal biocontrol agents.	The development of fungal biocontrol agents (BCAs) as alternatives to chemical pesticides is of increasing public interest. Tools to assess the toxicity of the secondary metabolites that these BCAs produce are often not available or existing methods have not yet been evaluated for these compounds. This study compares five different test systems, which include a representative bacterium, protozoan, arthropod and insect and human cell lines, as regards their sensitivity. It also compares the cost in time and resources for conducting the tests. Pure metabolites and crude extracts from two fungal BCAs as well as two chemical pesticides (hoestar and chlorpyrifos) and the mycotoxin patulin were employed as test compounds. All tests systems proved to be suitable for toxicity studies of metabolites from fungal BCAs and showed different grades of sensitivity to the different substances. The possibility of employing an array of test systems to determine ecotoxicological properties is discussed.	1	pesticide
16143458	Isolation and characterization of a chlorpyrifos and 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol degrading bacterium.	A bacterium, isolated from contaminated soils around a chemical factory and named strain DSP3 was capable of biodegrading both chlorpyrifos and 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol. Based on the results of phenotypic features, phylogenetic similarity of 16S rRNA gene sequences, DNA G+C content, and DNA homology between strain DSP3 and reference strains, strain DSP3 was identified as Alcaligenes faecalis. Chlorpyrifos was utilized as the sole source of carbon and phosphorus by strain DSP3. We examined the role of strain DSP3 in the degradation of chlorpyrifos and 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol under different culture conditions. Parathion and diazinon could also be degraded by strain DSP3 when provided as the sole sources of carbon and phosphorus. An addition of strain DSP3 (10(8)cells g(-1)) to soil with chlorpyrifos (100 mg kg(-1)) resulted in a higher degradation rate than the one obtained from non-inoculated soils. Different degradation rates of chlorpyrifos in six types of treated soils suggested that soils used for cabbage growing in combination with inoculation of strain DSP3 showed enhanced microbial degradation of chlorpyrifos.	1	pesticide
16152672	Can agrobiont spiders (Araneae) avoid a surface with pesticide residues?	Integrated pest management includes the use of various pesticides that can have a detrimental effect on spiders. A pesticide can express its activity directly or via residues. Most of the attention paid to the impact of pesticides on spiders has investigated the effects of direct exposure. Our aim in this study was to investigate the residual activity (repellency and toxicity) of selected pesticides on six principal species of spider occurring in an apple orchard. Four of these species (Clubiona spp., Pardosa spp., Philodromus spp., Xysticus spp.) are hunting spiders, and two species (Dictyna spp., Theridion spp.) are web-building. We were interested to see whether these spiders could avoid a surface with residues and to examine their susceptibilities to fresh and 1-day-old residues. For this purpose we conducted laboratory experiments using three types of pesticide, an organophosphate, phosalone (Zolone), a pyrethroid, permethrin (Ambush) and Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt; Novodor), which were applied to paper discs or branches. Spiders could choose to stay on any treated paper/branch within a dish. Except for Theridion spp., all species were repelled by fresh residues but not by 1-day-old residues. Clubiona spp., Dictyna spp., Pardosa spp. and Xysticus spp were repelled by phosalone and permethrin residues only, whereas Philodromus spp. specimens were repelled also by Bt residues. Theridion spp. avoided contact with residues by making a web on any available branch. Regarding toxicity, neither fresh nor 1-day-old residues of phosalone or Bt caused significant mortality to any spider species. In contrast, both fresh and 1-day-old residues of permethrin caused significant mortality to all species except for Theridion spp. In conclusion, spiders can recognise and avoid only fresh residues, although older residues might still be toxic to them.	1	pesticide
16152978	Insecticide drift deposition on noncrop plant surfaces and its impact on two beneficial nontarget arthropods, Aphidius colemani Viereck (Hymenoptera, Braconidae) and Coccinella septempunctata L. (Coleoptera, Coccinellidae).	Drift of the pyrethroid insecticide lambda-cyhalothrin into field margins bordering wheat and its effect on nontarget arthropods was investigated under field conditions. Insecticide deposition on leaf surfaces of broad beans exposed within field margins at 1-, 2-, and 3-m distance from the field edge and directly within the crop was quantified using a fluorescent tracer. The toxicity of leaf deposits to the aphid parasitoid Aphidius colemani Viereck (Hymenoptera: Braconidae) and to larvae of the ladybird Coccinella septempunctata L. (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae) was estimated. Mean corrected mortalities of A. colemani were < 50% (1 m) and < 30% (2 and 3 m), and mortalities of C. septempunctata larvae were < or = 80% (1 m), < or = 67% (2 m), and < or = 52% (3 m) 12 and 24 h postexposure to drift deposits. High positive correlation coefficients proved the relationship between leaf deposits and mortalities of test organisms. The connection of drift deposit measurement and exposure bioassay provides a promising approach to determining effects of insecticide drift on nontarget arthropods. However, due to the patchiness of drift deposition on noncrop plant surfaces, risks to nontarget arthropods at defined distances from the sprayed crop are not highly predictable.	1	pesticide
16153789	Neo-nicotinoid metabolic activation and inactivation established with coupled nicotinic receptor-CYP3A4 and -aldehyde oxidase systems.	Two important enzymes in metabolism of the principal neo-nicotinoid insecticide imidacloprid are liver microsomal CYP3 A4 and cytosolic aldehyde oxidase (AOX). CYP3A4 oxidation at several molecular sites and AOX reduction at the nitro substituent result in either an increase (activation) or decrease (inactivation) of agonist potency at nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), both insect and vertebrate alpha 4beta 2. This study evaluates activation or inactivation of 11 neo-nicotinoids in a continuous two-step system coupling metabolism and receptor binding. For metabolism, the neo-nicotinoid is incubated with CYP3A4 and NADPH or AOX with the cosubstrate N-methyl-nicotinamide, terminating the reaction with ketoconazole or menadione, respectively, to inhibit further conversion. For receptor assay, either the Drosophila nAChR and [(3)H]imidacloprid or the alpha4 beta2 nicotinic receptor and [(3)H](-)-nicotine are added to determine changes in neo-nicotinoid potency. With the Drosophila nAChR assay, the N-methyl compounds N-methyl-imidacloprid and thiamethoxam are activated 4.5-29-fold by CYP3 A4 whereas nine other neo-nicotinoids are not changed in potency. With the vertebrate alpha4 beta2 nAChR, AOX enhances imidacloprid potency but CYP3 A4 does not. The AOX system coupled with the Drosophila receptor strongly inactivates clothianidin, dinotefuran, imidacloprid, desmethyl-thiamethoxam, and thiamethoxam with some inactivation of nitenpyram and nithiazine, and little or no effect on four other compounds.	1	pesticide
16167841	Neonicotinoid nitroguanidine insecticide metabolites: synthesis and nicotinic receptor potency of guanidines, aminoguanidines, and their derivatives.	Four neonicotinoid nitroguanidine insecticides (imidacloprid, thiamethoxam, clothianidin, and dinotefuran) acting as nicotinic agonists account for 10-15% of worldwide insecticide sales. General methods are needed for synthesis of their guanidine and aminoguanidine metabolites so they may be used as analytical standards and for evaluation of nicotinic receptor potency. The guanidines are obtained by treating the parent nitroguanidines with Fe powder in aqueous C2H5OH containing NH4Cl and isolated by silica chromatography. The aminoguanidines are prepared as mixtures with the guanidines on reaction of the parent nitroguanidines and Zn powder in glacial acetic acid. The imidacloprid aminoguanidine is isolated as the acetone imine or trifluoroacetamide and the clothianidin and dinotefuran aminoguanidines as the acetone imines using silica chromatography. Deprotection under acidic conditions then leads to the aminoguanidine.HCl salts. Because of stability considerations, a pH partitioning method is used to separate thiamethoxam aminoguanidine and guanidine. An alternate procedure to the aminoguanidine of imidacloprid (but not thiamethoxam, clothianidin, or dinotefuran) is reaction with hydrazine hydrate and NH4Cl in anhydrous C2H5OH. Ambiguities in further biological reactions are clarified by synthesizing authentic standards of three purported metabolites formed via the imidacloprid aminoguanidine: the 1,2,4-triazol-3-one derivative with ethyl chloroformate or ethyl pyrocarbonate, the acetaldehyde imine with acetaldehyde, and the 3-methyl-1,2,4-triazin-4-one derivative with ethyl pyruvate in refluxing toluene. The purported triazolone metabolite is reassigned as the aminoguanidine acetaldehyde imine probably formed as an artifact from acetaldehyde present in the ethyl acetate used for metabolite extraction. Potency at the Drosophila nicotinic receptor is greatly decreased on converting a nitroguanidine to a guanidine or aminoguanidine. In sharp contrast, potency at the vertebrate alpha4beta2 nicotinic receptor is generally increased on conversion from the nitroguanidine to aminoguanidine and particularly guanidine derivatives.	1	pesticide
16174514	Laboratory and scaled up evaluation of cis-permethrin applied as a new ultra low volume formulation against Aedes aegypti (Diptera: Culicidae).	"Ultra low volume (ULV) aerial spraying is a common methodology for spatial treatments for Aedes aegypti (L.) control. Previous studies from our laboratory indicated that the cis isomer of permethrin has an excellent efficacy for vector control, in particular for Triatoma infestans. It was of interest to determine the efficacy of this pure isomer in a ULV water-based formulation for adult A. aegypti control, since both vectors usually are found together in South America. A method is presented to make a quick measure at laboratory level of the knock down effect (KT50) of a new EC water-based formulation of cis-permethrin, in a small Peet Grady chamber of 0.34 m3, with a specially designed glass sprayer. A deltamethrin standard ULV formulation ""CISLIN"" was used for comparison. cis-Permethrin showed a significantly lower KT50 value than deltamethrin (7.50 and 9.65 min, respectively). When the mosquitoes were introduced into the chamber 10 min after spraying KT50 values were almost equal (15.59 and 15.88 min, respectively). In scaled up bioassays the ULV formulation of cis-permethrin showed 100% mortality of A. aegypti adult mosquitoes at the beginning of the treatment (t=0) and some mortality at 1h post treatment of freshly introduced mosquitoes. It was concluded that cis-permethrin could be an excellent tool for control of A. aegypti and other vectors of medical importance, with fewer side effects and better cost-effectiveness than with the cyanopyrethroids."	1	pesticide
16190224	Fate of endocrine-disruptor, pharmaceutical, and personal care product chemicals during simulated drinking water treatment processes.	The potential occurrence of endocrine-disrupting compounds (EDCs) as well as pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCPs) in drinking water supplies raises concern over the removal of these compounds by common drinking water treatment processes. Three drinking water supplies were spiked with 10 to 250 ng/L of 62 different EDC/ PPCPs; one model water containing an NOM isolate was spiked with 49 different EDC/PPCPs. Compounds were detected by LC/MS/MS or GC/MS/MS. These test waters were subjected to bench-scale experimentation to simulate individual treatment processes in a water treatment plant (WTP). Aluminum sulfate and ferric chloride coagulants or chemical lime softening removed some polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) but removed <25% of most other EDC/ PPCPs. Addition of 5 mg/L of powder activated carbon (PAC) with a 4-h contact time removed 50% to >98% of GC/ MS/MS compounds (more volatile) and 10% to >95% of LC/ MS/MS compounds (more polar); higher PAC dosages improved EDC/PPCP removal. EDC/PPCP percentage removal was independent of the initial compound concentration. Octanol-water partition coefficients served as a reasonable indicator of compound removal under controlled PAC test conditions, except for EDC/PPCPs that were protonated or deprotonated at the test pH and some that contained heterocyclic or aromatic nitrogen. Separate chlorine or ozone experiments decreased the EDC/PPCP initial concentration by <10% to >90%; EDC/PPCPs were likely transformed to oxidation byproducts. Ozone oxidized steroids containing phenolic moieties (estradiol, ethynylestradiol, or estrone) more efficiently than those without aromatic or phenolic moieties (androstenedione, progesterone, and testosterone). EDC/PPCP reactivity with oxidants were separated into three general groups: (1) compounds easily oxidized (>80% reacted) by chlorine are always oxidized at least as efficiently by ozone; (2) 6 of the -60 compounds (TCEP, BHC, chlordane, dieldrin, heptachlor epoxide, musk ketone) were poorly oxidized (<20% reacted) by chlorine or ozone; (3) compounds (24 of 60) reacting preferentially (higher removals) with ozone rather than chlorine. Conventional treatment (coagulation plus chlorination) would have low removal of many EDC/PPCPs, while addition of PAC and/or ozone could substantially improve their removals. Existing strategies that predict relative removals of herbicides, pesticides, and other organic pollutants by activated carbon or oxidation can be directly applied for the removal of many EDC/PPCPs, but these strategies need to be modified to account for charged (protonated bases or deprotonated acids) and aliphatic species. Some compounds (e.g., DEET, ibuprofen, gemfibrozil) had low removals unless ozonation was used. Other compounds had low removals by all the WTP processes considered (atrazine, iopromide, meprobamate, TCEP), and removal processes capable of removing these types of compounds should be investigated.	1	pesticide
16215696	An assessment of PCBs and OC pesticides in eggs of double-crested (Phalacrocorax auritus) and Pelagic (P. pelagicus) cormorants from the west coast of Canada, 1970 to 2002.	Eggs of double-crested and pelagic cormorants were collected between 1970 and 2002 from colonies in the Strait of Georgia, BC, Canada, and assayed for concentrations of organochlorine (OC) pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). Double-crested cormorant eggs from the early 1970's contained up to 4.1 mg kg-1 p,p'-DDE and 12.5 mg kg-1 sigmaPCBs. Corresponding values for pelagic cormorant eggs were 1.5 mg kg-1 p,p'-DDE and 3.9 mg kg-1 sigmaPCBs. Egg tissue concentrations of the dominant OC pesticides and sigmaPCBs dropped mainly during the 1970's, with minor declines thereafter. The data suggest that contaminant levels in cormorants have now stabilized at low levels throughout the resident population. Small but significant latitudinal gradients in several OC pesticides and PCBs indicated that areas of the southern strait were more contaminated than areas of the less populated northern strait. Interspecific differences in contamination may indicate that pelagic cormorants have a reduced capacity to metabolize chlordanes, DDT and PCBs compared to double-crested cormorants. Alternatively, the two species may have more divergent prey bases than previously thought. During the 1980's, TCDD toxic equivalents, largely contributed by polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs) and dibenzofurans (PCDFs), were correlated with physiological and biochemical alterations. Also, from 1989 to 1990, four deformed cormorant chicks (two of each species) were found during nest visits; none were found between 1991 and 1995. The relative rates of deformed chicks were 6 per 10,000 for double-crested and 16 per 10,000 for pelagic cormorants. The findings of deformed chicks were coincident with the period of highest PCDD and PCDF contamination; however, the sample sizes were too low to derive a substantive connection. Colony-wide productivity of double-crested cormorants was poorer in the southern colonies where PCBs in particular were elevated. While of concern, these lines of evidence are insufficient to conclude that chlorinated hydrocarbon contamination was a dominant contributor to population declines. It seems more probable that ecological variables, particularly changing prey and predator dynamics, drove the reductions in population size.	1	pesticide
16219503	A comparison of five pesticides adsorption and desorption processes in thirteen contrasting field soils.	Batch adsorption and desorption experiments were performed using thirteen agricultural soil samples and five pesticides. Experimental data indicated a gradient in pesticide adsorption on soil: trifluralin >> 2,4-D > isoproturon> atrazine >> bentazone. Atrazine, isoproturon and trifluralin adsorption were correlated to soil organic matter content (r2 = 0.7, 0.82, 0.79 respectively). Conversely, bentazone adsorption was governed by soil pH (r2 = 0.68) while insignificant effect has been shown in the case of 2,4-D. Multiple linear regressions were used to combine relationships between the various soil parameters and the Freundlich adsorption coefficient (K(f)) of each pesticide. Then desorption was assessed since it may reflect some of the interactions involved between the pesticides and the soil components. Adsorbed molecules were released into aqueous solution in the following order: bentazone >> atrazine> isoproturon> 2,4-D >> trifluralin. The occurrence of hysteresis did not allow an accurate interpretation of the pesticide desorption data because of the possible interplay of several processes.	1	pesticide
16263381	Comparative effects of the Roundup and glyphosate on mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation.	The potential toxicity of the herbicide Roundup and its fundamental substance (glyphosate) was tested in bioenergetic functions of isolated rat liver mitochondria. Roundup stimulates succinate-supported respiration twice, with simultaneous collapse of transmembrane electrical potential, while glyphosate used in the same concentrations does not induce any significant effect. Additionally, Roundup depresses state 3 respiration by about 40%, at 15 mM, whereas uncoupled respiration in the presence of FCCP is depressed by about 50%. Depression of uncoupled respiratory activity is mediated through partial inhibition of mitochondrial complexes II and III, but not of complex IV. The phosphorylative system was affected by both a direct and an indirect effect on the F0F1 ATPase activity. The addition of uncoupled concentrations of Roundup to Ca2+-loaded mitochondria treated with Ruthenium Red resulted in non-specific membrane permeabilization, as evidenced by mitochondrial swelling in isosmotic sucrose medium. Therefore, the uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation is also related to the non-specific membrane permeabilization induced by Roundup. Glyphosate alone does not show any relevant effect on the mitochondrial bioenergetics, in opposition to Roundup formulation products. The differences in the toxicity observed could be either attributed to some products of Roundup or to a synergic effect of glyphosate and formulation products. Bearing in mind that mitochondria is provided with a variety of bioenergetic functions mandatory for the regulation of intracellular aerobic energy production and electrolyte homeostasis, these results question the safety of Roundup on animal health.	1	pesticide
16263687	Enantioselective and gender-dependent depletion of chlordane compounds from rat tissues.	Isomers and metabolites of the organochlorine pesticide chlordane persist in the environment and bioaccumulate in Arctic marine food webs. Rodent studies indicate that there are gender-related differences in trans-nonachlor and oxychlordane metabolism. Thus, comparative tissue depletion studies were undertaken in male and female rats exposed to trans-nonachlor, oxychlordane, or trans-chlordane at 2.5 mg/kg body weight/d by gavage for 28 d followed by two consecutive 28-d depletion periods. None of the test chemicals were overtly toxic at this dose, although increased liver weights in some groups were consistent with microsomal enzyme induction. The metabolite oxychlordane accumulated in tissues from rats exposed to trans-nonachlor and trans-chlordane. Trans-Nonachlor and oxychlordane residue levels were highest in tissues from female rats at each time point; however, trans-chlordane was completely eliminated from males and females by the end of the study. Body burden calculations showed no significant clearance of oxychlordane in females over 56 d postdosing, whereas males lost approximately half their oxychlordane body burden in the same period. For the chiral contaminants oxychlordane and trans-chlordane, tissues from male and female rats were selectively depleted of the (+)-enantiomer; however, there were gender-related differences in enantiomer depletion patterns over time. In general, residue analyses confirmed that gender-related metabolic differences and contaminant structural properties, including chirality, influenced chlordane contaminant elimination from rat tissues. The study points to a need for similar knowledge of gender-related responses in humans in order to provide relevant dietary recommendations for populations exposed to chlordane-related contaminants in foods.	1	pesticide
16271733	Algicidal and antifungal compounds from the roots of Ruta graveolens and synthesis of their analogs.	Bioassay-guided fractionation of the ethyl acetate extract of Ruta graveolens roots yielded rutacridone epoxide with potent selective algicidal activity towards the 2-methyl-isoborneol (MIB)-producing blue-green alga Oscillatoria perornata, with relatively little effect on the green alga Selenastrum capricornutum. The diol-analog of rutacridone epoxide, gravacridondiol, which was also present in the same extract, had significantly less activity towards O. perornata. Rutacridone epoxide also showed significantly higher activity than commercial fungicides captan and benomyl in our micro-bioassay against the agriculturally important pathogenic fungi Colletotrichum fragariae, C. gloeosporioides, C. acutatum, and Botrytis cineara and Fusarium oxysporium. Rutacridone epoxide is reported as a direct-acting mutagen, precluding its use as an agrochemical. In order to understand the structure-activity relationships and to develop new potential biocides without toxicity and mutagenicity, some analogs containing the (2-methyloxiranyl)-dihydrobenzofuran moiety with an epoxide were synthesized and tested. None of the synthetic analogs showed comparable activities to rutacridone epoxide. The absolute stereochemistry of rutacridone was determined to be 2'(R) and that of rutacridone epoxide to be 2'(R), 3'(R) by CD and NMR analysis.	1	pesticide
16271832	Relationship between toxicity of selected insecticides and expression of stress proteins (HSP, GRP) in cultured human cells: effects of commercial formulations versus pure active molecules.	Three carbamate (formetanate, methomyl, pyrimicarb) and one pyrethroid (bifenthrin) insecticides were investigated both as pure chemicals and as commercial formulations in order to unveil possible toxic effects of additives and solvents present in the commercial formulations and to evaluate the cellular stress response as a defense mechanism. Toxic effects were evaluated on A549 cells, derived from a human lung carcinoma, by measuring (1) threshold concentrations leading to a decrease of the growth rate (LOEC), (2) sublethal concentrations (SC) which arrested growth without killing the cells, and (3) expression levels of several stress proteins, i.e., HSP27, HSP72/73, HSP90, GRP78, and GRP94. As compared to the pure active molecule, LOEC appeared at lower concentrations when using the commercial formulations, i.e., Dicarzol (formetanate), Lannate20 (methomyl) and Talstar or Kiros EV (bifenthrin). Propylene glycol and propylene glycol monomethyl ether, respectively, present in Talstar and kiros, do not account for the high toxicity of these commercial formulations and do not potentiate the toxicity of bifenthrin. Additive but not synergistic adverse effects were observed when cells are exposed to a mixture of 4 different commercial formulations. Our results show that the concentrations of active molecules recommended in flori-cultural general use or for spray preparations are much higher than SC concentrations, as determined on A549 pulmonary cells. GRP78 was up-regulated by all the insecticides, commercial preparations being more efficient to trigger the stress reaction. This suggests that insecticides and additives present in commercial formulations disrupt ER functions. Conversely, HSP72/73 was found to be down-regulated by all the insecticides. This seems to be related with a decrease of protein synthesis in the cytosol, as a result of the ER unfolded protein response. Indeed, tunicamycin, known to inhibit N-linked glycosylation in the ER, was found to induce a similar inverse correlation between GRP78 overexpression and HSP72/73 under-expression. Expression of GRP94 was found to be increased and HSP27 lowered by the highest concentrations of bifenthrin commercial formulations. Methomyl and Lannate20 only induced an under-expression of HSP90.	1	pesticide
16277416	Phytoremediation of metolachlor by transgenic rice plants expressing human CYP2B6.	We introduced the human cytochrome P450 gene CYP2B6 into rice plants (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare), and the CYP2B6-expressing rice plants became more tolerant to various herbicides than nontransgenic Nipponbare rice plants. In particular, CYP2B6 rice plants grown in soil showed tolerance to the chloroacetanilide herbicides alachlor and metolachlor. We evaluated the degradation of metolachlor by CYP2B6 rice plants to confirm the metabolic activity of the introduced CYP2B6. Although both CYP2B6 and nontransgenic Nipponbare rice plants could decrease the amount of metolachlor in plant tissue and culture medium, CYP2B6 rice plants could remove much greater amounts. In a greenhouse, the ability of CYP2B6 rice plants to remove metolachlor was confirmed in large-scale experiments, in which these plants appeared able to decrease residual quantities of metolachlor in water and soil.	1	pesticide
16284845	Growth at different temperatures and on fungicide amended media: two characteristics to distinguish Colletotrichum species pathogenic to rubber.	Slower growth at temperatures ranging from 15 to 32.5 degrees C and high tolerance of three fungicides, benomyl, carbendazim and thio-phanate methyl, were shown to be reliable characteristics in distinguishing rubber isolates of Colletotrichum acutatum from Colletotrichum gloeosporioides in addition to the characteristics reported previously.	1	pesticide
16295677	Surveillance of dengue vector at thiruvananthapuram (Kerala) International Airport.	A survey of Aedes (Stegomyia) mosquitoes was undertaken in and around the International airport at Thiruvananthapuram during premonsoon season. An attempt has been made in this paper to elaborate on the presence of risk potential for Dengue /yellow fever at the airport with the detection of Aedes breeding. The entomological indices have also been discussed with regard to presence of potential wet containers and rate of infestation by Aedes mosquitoes. The airport area was searched for Aedes (Stegomyia) breeding where 20% of the premises were found positive for Aedes aegypti breeding and one premise (6.6%) was found positive with Aedes albopictus breeding. In the 400 meters (perimeter) of airport, four municipal wards namely Chakka, Sankumugam, Valiyathura and Vettucadu were surveyed. The house index ranged from 5.8% to 11.7% for Aedes aegypti while, it was between 9.8% to 19.2% with regard to Aedes albopictus. The container index ranged between 4.4% to 9.9% for Aedes aegypti and 7.1% to 15.3% for Aedes albopictus. Breteau index was found to be between 23.5% to 51.9% for both the species. The susceptibility test conducted against different insecticides showed that the immature stages of Ae. aegypti and Ae. albopictus were found to be susceptible to the commonly used larvicides in public health viz. Temephos (0.02 ppm), Fenthion (0.05 ppm), Malathion (1.0 ppm) and Fenitrothion (0.06 ppm).	1	pesticide
16297537	Toxicity assessment of pesticides to Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata under air-tight test environment.	This paper presents the toxicity data of seven pesticides including atrazine, parathion, dichlorvos, malathion, fenthion, 2-methyl-4-chlorophenoxyacetic acid, and pentachlorophenol on Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata based on a new algal toxicity testing technique conducted under air-tight environment. The dissolved oxygen production and the cell density were adopted as the response endpoints. Median effective concentrations (EC50) range from 0.0035 to 3.40 mg/L (DO production) and from 0.0067 to 3.12 mg/L (cell density). No-observed-effect concentration (NOEC) was determined using the Dunnett's test. NOEC values are with in the range of 0.001-1.20 mg/L. In general, the two test endpoints revealed similar sensitivities. From comparisons of literature data also based on Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata, it is clear that conventional batch tests tend to underestimate the toxicity of pesticides due to their open test environment. Closed-system tests, i.e., microplate test, respirometer test, and our BOD-bottle test, generally provide better assessment to the effects of pesticides. Data based on our test method reveals much higher toxicity (3-100 times) than that from the conventional batch tests. Furthermore, for organophosphorus insecticides, results from the present study show that Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata is less sensitive than Daphnia magna and rainbow trout, but is more susceptible than fathead minnow. The closed-system test applied in this study provides more adequate assessment for the toxicity of pesticides than the conventional batch tests.	1	pesticide
16308868	Selectivity of pesticides used on cotton (Gossypium hirsutum) to Trichogramma pretiosum reared on two laboratory-reared hosts.	The side-effects of pesticides (insecticides, fungicides, herbicides and plant growth regulators) used on cotton were tested on adults and pupae of Trichogramma pretiosum Riley reared in the laboratory on two different hosts, the Angoumois grain moth (Sitotroga cerealella Olivier) and the Mediterranean flour moth (Ephestia kuehniella (Zeller)). The eggs of the host enclosing the parasitoid pupae received direct pesticide sprays, while the adults of the parasitoid were exposed to the pesticides through contact with residues on sprayed eggs offered to parasitism. Alpha-cypermethrin, carbosulfan, deltamethrin, endosulfan, profenofos and zeta-cypermethrin were highly noxious to the parasitoid, significantly reducing the percentage of emergence and parasitism of T. pretiosum developing in E. kuehniella or S. cerealella eggs. However, the pupal stage of the parasitoid developing in S. cerealella eggs was less susceptible to alpha-cypermethrin and deltamethrin. Lufenuron and metamidophos greatly reduced the percentage of adult emergence from eggs of both hosts, while novaluron only interfered on this variable when the wasps were developing in E. kuehniella eggs. However, lufenuron and monocrotophos had no effect on the parasitoid pupae of T. pretiosum developing in E. kuehniella eggs. Chlorfluazuron, diafenthiuron, diflubenzuron, fentin hydroxide, mepiquat chloride, novaluron, thiacloprid and triflumuron did not affect T. pretiosum emergence when eggs of S. cerealella enclosing pupae of the wasps were surface treated. The pesticides azoxystrobin, carbendazin + thiram, mepiquat chloride and novaluron had no effect on the ability of the wasps to parasitise E. kuehniella eggs. However, only mepiquat chloride did not affect the percentage of F1 wasps emerging from E. kuehniella eggs. The remaining pesticides moderately reduced the percentage of emergence and parasitism of the wasps when they had contact with the chemicals during their pupal or adult stage. Thus there were differences in pesticide toxicity according to the host used for parasitoid development. These differences were hypothesised to occur because of differences in egg morphology and parasitoid performance.	1	pesticide
16334308	Management of spotted wilt vectored by Frankliniella fusca (Thysanoptera: Thripidae) in Virginia market-type peanut.	Field tests were conducted during 2001 and 2002 in northeastern North Carolina to evaluate the impact of cultural practices and in-furrow insecticides on the incidence of Tomato spotted wilt virus (genus Tospovirus, family Bunyaviridae, TSWV), which is transmitted to peanut, Arachis hypogaea L., primarily by tobacco thrips, Frankliniella fusca Hinds (Thysanoptera: Thripidae). Treatments included in row plant populations of 7, 13, and 17 plants per meter; the virginia market-type 'NC V-11' and 'Perry'; planting dates of early and late May; and phorate and aldicarb insecticide applied in-furrow. The incidence of plants expressing visual symptoms of spotted wilt was recorded from mid-June through mid-September. Treatment factors that reduced the incidence of symptoms of plants expressing spotted wilt symptoms included establishing higher plant densities, delaying planting from early May until late May, and applying the in-furrow insecticide phorate. Peanut cultivar did not have a consistent, significant effect on the incidence of symptomatic plants in this experiment.	1	pesticide
16334323	"Weathering trials of Amulet cue-lure and Amulet methyl eugenol ""attract-and-kill"" stations with male melon flies and oriental fruit flies (Diptera: Tephritidae) in Hawaii."	"Amulet C-L (cue-lure) and Amulet ME (methyl eugenol) molded paper fiber ""attract-and-kill"" dispensers containing fipronil were tested under Hawaiian weather conditions against Bactrocera cucurbitae (Coquillett) (melon fly) and Bactrocera dorsalis (Hendel) (oriental fruit fly), respectively. In paired tests (fresh versus weathered), C-L dispensers were effective for at least 77 d, whereas ME dispensers were effective for at least 21 d. Thus, C-L dispensers exceeded, whereas ME dispensers did not meet the label interval replacement recommendation of 60 d. Addition of 4 ml of ME to 56-d-old ME dispensers restored attraction and kill for an additional 21 d. This result suggested the fipronil added at manufacture was still effective. By enclosing and weathering ME dispensers inside small plastic bucket traps, longevity of ME dispensers was extended up to 56 d. Fipronil ME and C-L dispensers also were compared, inside bucket traps, to other toxicants: spinosad, naled, DDVP, malathion, and permethrin. Against B. dorsalis, fipronil ME dispensers compared favorably only up to 3 wk. Against B. cucurbitae, fipronil C-L dispensers compared favorably for at least 15 wk. Our results suggest that fipronil C-L dispensers can potentially be used in Hawaii; however, fipronil ME dispensers need to be modified or protected from the effects of weathering to extend longevity and meet label specifications. Nonetheless, Amulet C-L and ME dispensers are novel prepackaged formulations containing C-L or ME and fipronil that are more convenient and safer to handle than current liquid insecticide formulations used for areawide suppression of B. dorsalis and B. cucurbitae in Hawaii."	1	pesticide
16335048	Synthesis of a novel series of bispyridinium compounds bearing a xylene linker and evaluation of their reactivation activity against chlorpyrifos-inhibited acetylcholinesterase.	Nine potential AChE reactivators were synthesized using a modification of currently known synthetic pathways. Their potency to reactivate AChE inhibited by insecticide chlorpyrifos was tested in vitro. 2,2'-Bis(hydroxyiminomethyl)-1,1'-(1,4-phenylenedimethyl)-bispyridinium dibromide seems to be the most potent AChE reactivator. The reactivation potency of these compounds depends on structural factors such as length of the linking chain between both pyridinium rings and position of the oxime moiety on the pyridinium ring.	1	pesticide
16346187	Anaerobic degradation of cyanuric Acid, cysteine, and atrazine by a facultative anaerobic bacterium.	A facultative anaerobic bacterium that rapidly degrades cyanuric acid (CA) was isolated from the sediment of a stream that received industrial wastewater effluent. CA decomposition was measured throughout the growth cycle by using a high-performance liquid chromatography assay, and the concomitant production of ammonia was also measured. The bacterium used CA or cysteine as a major, if not the sole, carbon and energy source under anaerobic, but not aerobic, conditions in a defined medium. The cell yield was greatly enhanced by the simultaneous presence of cysteine and CA in the medium. Cysteine was preferentially used rather than CA early in the growth cycle, but all of the CA was used without an apparent lag after the cysteine was metabolized. Atrazine was also degraded by this bacterium under anaerobic conditions in a defined medium.	1	pesticide
16346357	Isolation of a Pseudomonas sp. Which Utilizes the Phosphonate Herbicide Glyphosate.	A strain of bacteria has been isolated which rapidly and efficiently utilizes the herbicide glyphosate (N-phosphonomethylglycine) as its sole phosphorus source in a synthetic medium. The strain (PG2982) was isolated by subculturing Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 9027 in a synthetic broth medium containing glyphosate as the sole phosphorus source. Strain PG2982 differs from the culture of P. aeruginosa in that it is nonflagellated, does not produce pyocyanin, and has an absolute requirement for thiamine. Strain PG2982 has been tentatively identified as a Pseudomonas sp. strain by its biochemical activities and moles percent guanine plus cytosine. Measurements of glyphosate with an amino acid analyzer show that glyphosate rapidly disappears from the medium during exponential growth of strain PG2982. In batch culture at 30 degrees C, this isolate completely utilized 1.0 mM glyphosate in 96 h and yielded a cell density equal to that obtained with 1.0 mM phosphate as the phosphorus source. However, a longer lag phase and greater generation time were noted in the glyphosate-containing medium. Strain PG2982 can efficiently utilize glyphosate as an alternate phosphorus source.	1	pesticide
16346428	Enhancement of goldfish virus type 2 replication by 1- naphthol, the major hydrolysis product of the pesticide carbaryl.	The major hydrolysis product of the pesticide carbaryl, 1-naphthol, enhanced the replication of goldfish virus type 2 in piscine cell culture at concentrations below any detectable cytotoxicity. Enhancement indices of 2.3, 3.7, and 7.1 were observed at 1, 5, and 10 ppm (mul/liter), respectively. Replication at 0.5 ppm was equivalent to that of controls.	1	pesticide
16347722	Mineralization of carbofuran by a soil bacterium.	A bacterium, tentatively identified as an Arthrobacter sp., was isolated from flooded soil that was incubated at 35 degrees C and repeatedly treated with carbofuran (2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl N-methylcarbamate). This bacterium exhibited an exceptional capacity to completely mineralize the ring-labeled C in carbofuran to CO(2) within 72 to 120 h in a mineral salts medium as a sole source of carbon and nitrogen under aerobic conditions. Mineralization was more rapid at 35 degrees C than at 20 degrees C. No degradation of carbofuran occurred even after prolonged incubation under anaerobic conditions. The predicted metabolites of carbofuran, 7-phenol (2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranol) and 3-hydroxycarbofuran, were also metabolized rapidly. 7-Phenol, although formed during carbofuran degradation, never accumulated in large amounts, evidently because of its further metabolism through ring cleavage. The bacterium readily hydrolyzed carbaryl (1-naphthyl N-methylcarbamate), but its hydrolysis product, 1-naphthol, resisted further degradation by this bacterium.	1	pesticide
16349478	Molecular basis of a bacterial consortium: interspecies catabolism of atrazine.	Pseudomonas sp. strain ADP contains the genes, atzA, -B, and -C, that encode three enzymes which metabolize atrazine to cyanuric acid. Atrazine-catabolizing pure cultures isolated from around the world contain genes homologous to atzA, -B, and -C. The present study was conducted to determine whether the same genes are present in an atrazine-catabolizing bacterial consortium and how the genes and metabolism are subdivided among member species. The consortium contained four or more bacterial species, but two members, Clavibacter michiganese ATZ1 and Pseudomonas sp. strain CN1, collectively mineralized atrazine. C. michiganese ATZ1 released chloride from atrazine, produced hydroxyatrazine, and contained a homolog to the atzA gene that encoded atrazine chlorohydrolase. C. michiganese ATZ1 stoichiometrically metabolized hydroxyatrazine to N-ethylammelide and contained genes homologous to atzB and atzC, suggesting that either a functional AtzB or -C catalyzed N-isopropylamine release from hydroxyatrazine. C. michiganese ATZ1 grew on isopropylamine as its sole carbon and nitrogen source, explaining the ability of the consortium to use atrazine as the sole carbon and nitrogen source. A second consortium member, Pseudomonas sp. strain CN1, metabolized the N-ethylammelide produced by C. michiganese ATZ1 to transiently form cyanuric acid, a reaction catalyzed by AtzC. A gene homologous to the atzC gene of Pseudomonas sp. strain ADP was present, as demonstrated by Southern hybridization and PCR. Pseudomonas sp. strain CN1, but not C. michiganese, metabolized cyanuric acid. The consortium metabolized atrazine faster than did C. michiganese individually. Additionally, the consortium metabolized a much broader set of triazine ring compounds than did previously described pure cultures in which the atzABC genes had been identified. These data begin to elucidate the genetic and metabolic bases of catabolism by multimember consortia.	1	pesticide
16357596	Exposure to nonpersistent insecticides and male reproductive hormones.	BACKGROUND: Urinary metabolites of several nonpersistent insecticides have been measured in a high percentage of men in the general population, suggesting widespread environmental exposures to these compounds. The present study explored the association of urinary concentrations of 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol (TCPY), a metabolite of chlorpyrifos and chlorpyrifos-methyl, and 1-naphthol (1N), a metabolite of carbaryl and naphthalene, with serum reproductive hormone levels in adult men. METHODS: Subjects (n = 268) were the male partners in couples presenting to a Massachusetts infertility clinic in years 2000 through 2003. TCPY and 1N were measured in a spot urine sample from each subject and adjusted for dilution using specific gravity. Reproductive hormones (follicle-stimulating hormone, leuteinizing hormone, inhibin B, testosterone, and sex hormone-binding globulin) were measured in serum collected from subjects during the same clinic visit. RESULTS: Multiple linear regression models showed an inverse association between TCPY and testosterone concentration. An interquartile range (IQR) increase in TCPY was associated with a decline of 25 ng/dL (95% confidence interval = -40 to -10) in testosterone concentration. The association appeared to be dose-dependent when exposure was divided into quintiles. The highest TCPY quintile was associated with a testosterone decline of 83 ng/dL (-128 to -39) compared with the lowest TCPY quintile. We also found inverse associations between TCPY and free androgen index and between 1N and testosterone, and suggestive inverse associations between TCPY and leuteinizing hormone and between 1N and free androgen index. CONCLUSION: In adult men, TCPY and 1N were associated with reduced testosterone levels. On a population level, these reductions are of potential public health importance because of widespread exposure to these nonpersistent insecticides.	1	pesticide
16362291	Comparison of different mass spectrometric detection techniques in the gas chromatographic analysis of pyrethroid insecticide residues in soil after microwave-assisted extraction.	A comparative study was carried out for the simultaneous determination of 11 pyrethroid insecticides in soil by gas chromatography (GC)--ion trap (IT)--mass spectrometry (MS), by means of two different ionization modes; electron impact and negative chemical ionization and three data acquisition procedures; full scan, selected ion monitoring and MS/MS. Pyrethroids investigated were tetramethrin, bifenthrin, phenothrin, lambda-cyhalothrin, permethrin, cyfluthrin, cypermethrin, flucythrinate, esfenvalerate, fluvalinate and deltamethrin. Soil samples were treated with toluene/water by microwave-assisted extraction for 9 min at 700 W and a cleaning up with florisil was performed. Clean soil samples were spiked with pyrethroids at a spiking level of 10, 25 and 50 ng/g. The method employed provides a concentration factor of 10. The ionization gas employed in the negative chemical ionization mode was methane. The use of MS/MS acquisition, in electron impact ionization, provided the best results, due to its high selectivity and sensitivity, giving very low limits of detection from 0.08 to 0.54 ng/g. In negative chemical ionization full scan and selected ion monitoring methods detection limits from 0.12 to 1.40 ng/g were found. The proposed methods were applied to several levels from 10 to 50 ng/g of spiked soils, being electron impact MS/MS method which minimizes matrix spectrum interferences and provided recovery average values from 84% to 120% with relative standard deviations which varied from 3.2 to 7.2%.	1	pesticide
16362293	Analysis of trace levels of pesticides in rainwater using SPME and GC-tandem mass spectrometry.	A multiresidue method using gas chromatography coupled to ion trap tandem mass spectrometry (GC-ITD-MS/MS) associated with solid phase microextraction (SPME) was developed for the analysis of 20 pesticides commonly used in the Alsace region in rainwater samples. Since the pesticides were expected to be present at very low concentrations and in complex matrices, the analytical method used was both highly selective and sensitive. Therefore, fibers coated with polyacrylate (PA), polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) and polydimethylsiloxane-divinylbenzene (PDMS-DVB) were tested, and the parameters affecting the precision and accuracy of the SPME method were investigated and optimized. These parameters include the type of fiber, the adsorption time, the effect of salt, and the extraction temperature. The PDMS fiber was the most polyvalent for the extractions of the different pesticides studied. Detection limits of between 5 and 500 ng L(-1), depending on the compounds under study (except for those which could not be analyzed: captan and mevinphos), were obtained with this analytical procedure. This method was applied to the analysis of rainwater samples collected simultaneously on a weekly basis at one rural and one urban site between March 2002 and July 2003. While some of the 20 pesticides analyzed were constantly detected (such as lindane and atrazine), a strong temporal variability was observed for some of the others (including alachlor, metolachlor, atrazine).	1	pesticide
16406499	Selection of a battery of rapid toxicity sensors for drinking water evaluation.	Comprehensive identification of chemical contaminants in Army field water supplies can be a lengthy process, but rapid analytical methods suitable for field use are limited. A complementary approach is to directly measure toxicity instead of individual chemical constituents. Ten toxicity sensors utilizing enzymes, bacteria, or vertebrate cells were tested to determine the minimum number of sensors that could rapidly identify toxicity in water samples containing one of 12 industrial chemicals. The ideal sensor would respond at a concentration just exceeding the Military Exposure Guideline (MEG) level for the chemical (an estimated threshold for adverse effects) but below the human lethal concentration. Chemical solutions were provided to testing laboratories as blind samples. No sensors responded to deionized water blanks, and only one sensor responded to a hard water blank. No single toxicity sensor responded to more than six chemicals in the desired response range, and one chemical (nicotine) was not detected by any sensor with the desired sensitivity. A combination of three sensors (Microtox, the Electric Cell Substrate Impedance Sensing (ECIS) test, and the Hepatocyte low density lipoprotein (LDL) uptake test) responded appropriately to nine of twelve chemicals. Adding a fourth sensor (neuronal microelectrode array) to the test battery allowed detection of two additional chemicals (aldicarb and methamidophos), but the neuronal microelectrode array was overly sensitive to paraquat. Evaluating sensor performance using a standard set of chemicals and a desired sensitivity range provides a basis both for selecting among available toxicity sensors and for evaluating emerging sensor technologies. Recommendations for future toxicity sensor evaluations are discussed.	1	pesticide
16433338	Volatilization of the pesticides chlorpyrifos and fenpropimorph from a potato crop.	Volatilization of pesticides from crops in the field can be an important emission pathway. In a field experiment with characterization of meteorological conditions, the pesticides chlorpyrifos and fenpropimorph were sprayed onto a potato crop, after which concentrations in the air and on/in the plants were measured. Rates of volatilization were estimated with the aerodynamic profile (ADP), energy balance (EB), relaxed eddy accumulation (REA), and plume dispersion (PD) methods. The volatilization rates obtained with the ADP and EB methods were similar, while some rates obtained with the REA and PD methods in the initial period were lower. Cumulative volatilization of chlorpyrifos during daylight hours (ADP and EB methods) was estimated to be about 65% of the dosage. By far the majority of this volatilization occurred in the first few days. Competing processes at the plant surface had a considerable effect on the dissipation of fenpropimorph, so cumulative volatilization during daylight hours was estimated to be only 7% of the dosage. Plant surface residues were higher than would correspond with the volatilization rate, indicating that penetration into the leaves had occurred.	1	pesticide
16468401	Degradation of chlorpyrifos in aqueous chlorine solutions: pathways, kinetics, and modeling.	Chlorpyrifos (CP) was used as a model compound to develop experimental methods and prototype modeling tools to forecast the fate of organophosphate (OP) pesticides under drinking water treatment conditions. CP was found to rapidly oxidize to chlorpyrifos oxon (CPO) in the presence of free chlorine. The primary oxidant is hypochlorous acid (HOCl), kr = 1.72 (+/-0.68) x 10(6) M(-1)h(-1). Thus, oxidation is more rapid at lower pH (i.e., below the pKa of HOCl at 7.5). At elevated pH, both CP and CPO are susceptible to alkaline hydrolysis and degrade to 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol (TCP), a stable end product. Furthermore, hydrolysis of both CP and CPO to TCP was shown to be accelerated in the presence of free chlorine by OCl-, kOCl,CP = 990 (+/-200) M(-1)h(-1) and kOCl,CPO = 1340 (+/-110) M(-1)h(-1). These observations regarding oxidation and hydrolysis are relevant to common drinking water disinfection processes. In this work, intrinsic rate coefficients for these processes were determined, and a simple mechanistic model was developed that accurately predicts the temporal concentrations of CP, CPO, and TCP as a function of pH, chlorine dose, and CP concentration.	1	pesticide
16488522	Removal of triazine herbicides from freshwater systems using photosynthetic microorganisms.	The uptake of the triazine herbicides, atrazine and terbutryn, was determined for two freshwater photosynthetic microorganisms, the green microalga Chlorella vulgaris and the cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus. An extremely rapid uptake of both pesticides was recorded, although uptake rate was lower for the cyanobacterium, mainly for atrazine. Other parameters related to the herbicide bioconcentration capacity of these microorganisms were also studied. Growth rate, biomass, and cell viability in cultures containing herbicide were clearly affected by herbicide uptake. Herbicide toxicity and microalgae sensitivity were used to determine the effectiveness of the bioconcentration process and the stability of herbicide removal. C. vulgaris showed higher bioconcentration capability for these two triazine herbicides than S. elongatus, especially with regard to terbutryn. This study supports the usefulness of such microorganisms, as a bioremediation technique in freshwater systems polluted with triazine herbicides.	1	pesticide
16509254	Study on susceptibility status in aquatic and adult stages of Aedes aegypti and Ae. albopictus against insecticides at international airports of south India.	A study on susceptibility status in aquatic and adult stages of Aedes aegypti and Ae. albopictus was undertaken at International Airports of Thiruvananthapuram and Cochin located in southern India. WHO standard test kits were used to conduct insecticide susceptibility tests against various organophosphates, organochlorines, carbamates and synthetic pyrethroids. The results indicate that adult Aedes aegypti and Ae. albopictus were resistant to DDT and dieldrin, but susceptible to propoxur, fenitrothion, malathion, deltamethrin, permethrin and lambdacyhalothrin. The susceptibility test conducted on immature stages of Ae. aegypti and Ae. albopictus revealed that they are susceptible to the larvicides commonly used under the National Vector Borne Diseases Control Programme viz. Temephos (0.02 ppm), Fenthion (0.05 ppm) Malathion (1.0 ppm) and Fenitrothion (0.06 ppm).	1	pesticide
16512249	Development of EPA method 535 for the determination of chloroacetanilide and other acetamide herbicide degradates in drinking water by solid-phase extraction and liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry.	"U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Method 535 has been developed in order to provide a method for the analysis of ""Alachlor ESA and other acetanilide degradation products,"" which are listed on EPA's 1998 Drinking Water Contaminant Candidate List. Method 535 uses solid-phase extraction with a nonporous graphitized carbon sorbent to extract the ethane sulfonic acid (ESA) and oxanilic acid degradates of propachlor, flufenacet, dimethenamid, alachlor, acetochlor, and metolachlor from finished drinking water matrixes. Separation and quantitation of the target analytes are achieved with liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry. Dimethachlor ESA and butachlor ESA were chosen during the method development as the surrogate and internal standard. Drinking water samples were dechlorinated with ammonium chloride without adversely affecting the analyte recoveries. Typical mean recoveries of 92-116% in deionized water and 89-116% in ground water were observed with relative standard deviations of <5%."	1	pesticide
16538523	Characterization of two Arabidopsis thaliana glutathione S-transferases.	Glutathione S-transferases (GST) are multifunctional proteins encoded by a large gene family, divided on the basis of sequence identity into phi, tau, theta, zeta and lambda classes. The phi and tau classes are present only in plants. GSTs appear to be ubiquitous in plants and are involved in herbicide detoxification and stress response, but little is known about the precise role of GSTs in normal plant physiology and during biotic and abiotic stress response. Two cDNAs representing the two plant classes tau and phi, AtGSTF9 and AtGSTU26, were expressed in vitro and the corresponding proteins were analysed. Both GSTs were able to catalyse a glutathione conjugation to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), but they were inactive as transferases towards p-nitrobenzylchloride (pNBC). AtGSTF9 showed activity towards benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and an activity as glutathione peroxidase with cumene hydroperoxide (CumHPO). AtGSTU26 was not active as glutathione peroxidase and towards BITC. RT-PCR analysis was used to evaluate the expression of the two genes in response to treatment with herbicides and safeners, chemicals, low and high temperature. Our results reveal that AtGSTU26 is induced by the chloroacetanilide herbicides alachlor and metolachlor and the safener benoxacor, and after exposure to low temperatures. In contrast, AtGSTF9 seems not to be influenced by the treatments employed.	1	pesticide
16539144	Response of the Formosan subterranean termites (Isoptera: Rhinotermitidae) to baits or nonrepellent termiticides in extended foraging arenas.	Distance effects of three treatments, noviflumuron, fipronil, and thiamethoxam, against laboratory populations of the Formosan subterranean termite, Coptotermesformosanus Shiraki, were tested in extended foraging arenas with foraging distances of 50 m. The results showed that during the 10-wk test period, all termites were killed by noviflumuron baits, whereas the nonrepellent termiticides fipronil and thiamethoxam divided the laboratory populations into two groups after causing 25-35% worker mortality. The horizontal transfer of lethal effects of fipronil was < or = 5 m. For thiamethoxam, the distance of transfer was substantially shorter. Because of their dose-dependent lethal time, the nonrepellent termiticides did not fulfill the requirements of a liquid bait model.	1	pesticide
16539149	Comparative susceptibility of western corn rootworm (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) adults to selected insecticides in Kansas.	Susceptibility of adult populations of the western corn rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte, to several insecticides was evaluated in seven Kansas counties, including Dickinson, Ford, Finney, Pottawatomie, Republic, Riley, and Stevens, between 1996 and 2002. All populations surveyed were highly susceptible to methyl parathion with the largest difference in susceptibility of only three-fold based on 16 complete bioassays for the populations from six counties over a 5-yr period. Noticeable decreases in carbaryl susceptibility were found in populations collected from Republic County between 1997 and 2001 when the cucurbitacin-carbaryl-based bait SLAM was widely used as an areawide management approach for adult corn rootworm control. However, the lowered carbaryl susceptibility returned to previous levels 1 yr after the use of SLAM was halted in the managed (treated) cornfields. This change implies possible dispersal of insects into the relatively small managed area from surrounding untreated cornfields and / or some fitness cost associated with carbaryl resistance within the population. Relative susceptibility of western corn rootworm adults also was evaluated for seven commonly used insecticides, including bifenthrin, carbaryl, chlorpyrifos, cypermethrin, fipronil, malathion, and methyl parathion. They were tested with corn rootworm adults collected from a single cornfield. Methyl parathion and bifenthrin were highly toxic to corn rootworm adults, and cypermethrin, chlorpyrifos, carbaryl, and malathion were only slightly less toxic. Although fipronil was highly toxic to adult rootworms, its activity was much slower than that of other insecticides. Thus, bifenthrin and methyl parathion were among the most effective in killing corn rootworm adults.	1	pesticide
16539152	Bollgard cotton and resistance of tobacco budworm (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) to conventional insecticides in southern Tamaulipas, Mexico.	Insecticide susceptibility in tobacco budworm, Heliothis virescens (F.) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), was determined for 8 yr (1991-2001) with larvae sampled from cotton in southern Tamaulipas, Mexico. Before 1996, when Bollgard cotton expressing the Cry1A(c) delta-endotoxin was introduced into the region, two important patterns were documented. The first was economically significant increases in resistance to certain insecticide groups. The second was occurrence of virtually complete control failures in the field during 1994 and 1995. The largest resistance changes were recorded for the type II pyrethroids cypermethrin and deltamethrin. These products are the most widely used products in the region. Resistance ratios for these products increased up to > 100-fold from 1991 to 1995. After 1996, the resistance levels declined. These findings did not occur with other products of scant use (e.g., permethrin, profenofos, and endosulfan) or low tobacco budworm efficacy coupled to a high use pattern (e.g., methyl parathion). This clear trend toward reversal of resistance to type II pyrethroids can be understood, in part, with respect to two factors: 1) the high adoption rate of transgenic cotton in the region, from 31.2% in the beginning (1996) to approximately 90% in 1998; this has considerably curbed the use of synthetic insecticides, with the attending loss of selection pressure on this pest; and 2) the potential immigration to the region of susceptible tobacco budworms from cultivated and wild suitable hosts as well as from transgenic cotton might have influenced the pest population as a whole. The influence of transgenic cotton on southern Tamaulipas can be more clearly seen by the drastic reduction of insecticide use to control this important pest. Now tobacco budworms in this region are susceptible to type II pyrethroids. Two effective and fundamentally different pest management tools are now available to cotton growers in southern Tamaulipas: transgenic cotton, coupled with careful use of pyrethroids, offers the possibility of sustainable and profitable cotton production.	1	pesticide
16550492	Comparative efficacy of the combination fipronil-(S)-methoprene and the combination permethrin-imidacloprid against Dermacentor reticulatus, the European dog tick, applied topically to dogs.	This study compared the efficacy of two of the most widely veterinary-dispensed topical products for control of ticks on dogs: fipronil-(S)-methoprene and imidacloprid-permethrin. Eighteen healthy beagle dogs of both sexes were divided into three groups of six dogs. Group 1 served as the untreated control. Dogs in group 2 were treated with fipronil 10% + (S)-methoprene 9% w/v applied once on day 0, and those in group 3 were treated with imidacloprid 8.8% and permethrin 44% w/v, applied once on day 0. All dogs were infested with approximately 50 unfed Dermacentor reticulatus ticks on days 1, 7, 14, 21, 28, 35, and 42, and ticks remaining were counted and removed 48 hours after each infestation. The 48-hour efficacy of the fipronil-(S)-methoprene combination remained at 100% at all assessment points through and including day 37, declining to 95.30% on day 44. The 48-hour efficacy of the imidacloprid-permethrin combination peaked at 86.46% on day 9, decreased to 73.37% by the third week, and fell to 63.53% by the end of the study (day 44). Significantly (P < .05) fewer ticks were recovered from dogs treated with fipronil-(S)-methoprene or imidacloprid-permethrin than from untreated control dogs at each infestation. Notably, the dogs treated with fipronil-(S)-methoprene had significantly (P < .05) lower tick counts at every assessment than the dogs treated with imidacloprid-permethrin.	1	pesticide
16555233	Effect of imidacloprid on the reproduction of acaricide-resistant and susceptible strains of Tetranychus urticae Koch (Acari: Tetranychidae).	Occasional reports linking neonicotinoid insecticide applications to field population outbreaks of the two-spotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae Koch, have been a topic of concern for integrated pest management (IPM) programmes, particularly in apples. In order to shed light on the factors which may contribute to the occasional field population increase of T. urticae following the application of neonicotinoid insecticides, greenhouse experiments have been set up. Four different T. urticae strains, namely GSS (acaricide-susceptible), WI (organophosphate-selected), USA (a largely uncharacterised strain) and Akita (METI (mitochondrial electron transport inhibitor) acaricide-resistant and cross-resistant to dicofol), were compared for their fecundity without insecticide treatment and for their ovipositional response to foliar and drench applications of the field-relevant dose of imidacloprid (100 mg litre(-1)). Without insecticide treatment, strain GSS laid significantly more eggs (162.50 (+/- 5.43)) than the multiple resistant strain Akita (139.90 (+/- 5.54)) during a 16 day oviposition period. With imidacloprid treatment the highest effect was observed with GSS, with a significantly reduced number of eggs in drench (143.40 (+/- 4.22)) and foliar (144.60 (+/- 5.85)) applications. For strains Akita and USA, no significant differences were observed in oviposition between imidacloprid treatments and controls. The proportion of F1 female offspring decreased significantly with drench application for GSS and WI, while no differences were observed among strains in the survival of F1 immature stages, except for strain USA. The viability of eggs was relatively high (from 82.9 (+/- 4.5)% for USA to 95.2 (+/- 1.2)% for GSS) and not affected by imidacloprid treatments.	1	pesticide
16564119	Simultaneous presence of DDT and pyrethroid residues in human breast milk from a malaria endemic area in South Africa.	DDT and pyrethroids were determined in 152 breast-milk samples from three towns in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, one of which had no need for DDT for malaria control. All compounds were found present in breast milk. Primiparae from one town had the highest mean SigmaDDT whole milk levels (238.23 microg/l), and multiparae from the same town had the highest means for permethrin (14.51 microg/l), cyfluthrin (41.74 microg/l), cypermethrin (4.24 microg/l), deltamethrin (8.39 microg/l), and Sigmapyrethroid (31.5 microg/l), most likely derived from agriculture. The ADI for DDT was only exceeded by infants from one town, but the ADI for pyrethroids was not exceeded. Since the ADI for DDT was recently reduced from 20 to 10 microg/kg/bw, we suggest that this aspect be treated with concern. We therefore raise a concern based on toxicant interactions, due to the presence of four different pyrethroids and DDT. Breastfeeding however, remains safe under prevailing conditions.	1	pesticide
16568334	A new shampoo based on neem (Azadirachta indica) is highly effective against head lice in vitro.	Because topical compounds based on insecticidal chemicals are the mainstay of head lice treatment, but resistance is increasing, alternatives, such as herbs and oils are being sold to treat head lice. To test a commercial shampoo based on seed extract of Azadirachta indica (neem tree) for its in vitro effect, head lice (n=17) were collected from school children in Australia and immersed in Wash-Away Louse shampoo (Alpha-Biocare GmbH, Germany). Vitality was evaluated for more than 3 h by examination under a dissecting microscope. Positive and negative controls were a commercially available head lice treatment containing permethrin 1% (n=19) and no treatment (n=14). All lice treated with the neem shampoo did not show any vital signs from the initial examination after immersion at 5-30 min; after 3 h, only a single louse showed minor signs of life, indicated by gut movements, a mortality of 94%. In the permethrin group, mortality was 20% at 5 min, 50% at 15 min, and 74% after 3 h. All 14 head lice of the negative control group survived during the observation period. Our data show that Wash-Away Louse is highly effective in vitro against head lice. The neem shampoo was more effective than the permethrin-based product. We speculate that complex plant-based compounds will replace the well-defined chemical pediculicides if resistance to the commonly used products further increases.	1	pesticide
16571020	Bioactive permethrin/beta-cyclodextrin inclusion complex.	Permethrin is popularly used in a variety of therapeutic areas. However, the poor water solubility of permethrin seriously limits its wider clinical applications. The present study demonstrates that solubility of permethrin in aqueous solution can considerably increase in the presence of beta-cyclodextrin (beta-CD). Extensive experimental data along with computational modeling reveal the formation of stable permethrin/beta-CD inclusion complexes, including permethrin(beta-CD) and permethrin(beta-CD)2, through hydrophobic binding. Both permethrin(beta-CD) and permethrin(beta-CD)2 complexes coexisted in aqueous solution, and the ratio of the concentration of permethrin(beta-CD) complex to that of permethrin(beta-CD)2 complex was dependent on the concentration of beta-CD. The complexation of permethrin with beta-CD significantly improved the bioavailability of permethrin and, therefore, increased the bioactivity. The significant increase of the bioactivity of permethrin in the presence of beta-CD provides an effective approach to improve the practical use of permethrin in public health and agriculture.	1	pesticide
16573328	Efficacy of systemic insecticides for protection of loblolly pine against southern pine engraver beetles (Coleoptera: Curculionidae: Scolytinae) and wood borers (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae).	We evaluated the efficacy of the systemic insecticides dinotefuran, emamectin benzoate, fipronil, and imidacloprid for preventing attacks and brood production of southern pine engraver beetles (Coleoptera: Curculionidae: Scolytinae) and wood borers (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) on standing, stressed trees and bolt sections of loblolly pine, Pinus taeda L., in eastern Texas. Emamectin benzoate significantly reduced the colonization success of engraver beetles and associated wood borers in both stressed trees and pine bolt sections. Fipronil was nearly as effective as emamectin benzoate in reducing insect colonization of bolts 3 and 5 mo after injection but only moderately effective 1 mo after injection. Fipronil also significantly reduced bark beetle-caused mortality of stressed trees. Imidacloprid and dinotefuran were ineffective in preventing bark beetle and wood borer colonization of bolts or standing, stressed trees. The injected formulation of emamectin benzoate was found to cause long vertical lesions in the sapwood-phloem interface at each injection point.	1	pesticide
16573331	Evaluation of insecticides and application methods against Contarinia nasturtii (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae), a new invasive insect pest in the United States.	The midge Contarinia nasturtii (Keiffer), a serious gall-forming insect pest of cruciferous plants in Europe and southwestern Asia, was first reported in the United States in summer 2004. It had not been recorded in North America until its discovery in Ontario, Canada, in 2000. Efficacy of 20 insecticides belonging to 12 different classes was evaluated by using a foliar spray, soil drench, or seed treatment method. The broccoli cultivar 'Packman' was used in all tests at the suitable stage of four to five true leaves. Results indicated that foliar sprays of lambda-cyhalothrin, acephate, acetamiprid, chlorpyrifos, and methomyl reduced C. nasturtii larval populations by 96.7-100%. Except for acetamiprid, the other four insecticides also were effective against adults and provided 100% mortality after 24 h. When applied by drench, acetamiprid, imidacloprid, and thiamethoxam provided 100% control of C. nasturtii larvae, and the duration of efficacy lasted at least 7 wk. When applied as seed treatment, clothianidin and thiamethoxam provided 100% control of larvae and did not significantly affect seed germination. Imidacloprid also provided 100% control but the percentage of germination after treatment was only 62% (96.9% in check). These results indicate that several insecticides may significantly reduce midge populations. The nicotinoid class of insecticides, which has strong systemic activity, is likely to be the first choice. It is necessary to explore and develop other control methods such as cultural control and host resistance to develop an effective integrated pest management system.	1	pesticide
16581110	Loggerhead sea turtle (Caretta caretta) egg yolk concentrations of persistent organic pollutants and lipid increase during the last stage of embryonic development.	Data are scarce describing the concentrations of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and organochlorine pesticides in sea turtle eggs. The purpose of this study was to establish appropriate sample collection methodology to monitor these contaminants in sea turtle eggs. Contaminant concentrations were measured in yolk samples from eggs that failed to hatch from three loggerhead sea turtle (Caretta caretta) nests collected in southern Florida to determine if concentrations change through embryonic development. One to three egg yolk samples per nest were analyzed from early, middle, and late developmental stages (n=22 eggs total). PCB and pesticide concentrations were determined by gas chromatography with electron capture detection (GC-ECD). Geometric mean concentrations of summation operatorPCBs (52 congeners), summation operatorDDTs, summation operatorchlordanes, and dieldrin in all eggs were 65.0 (range=7.11 to 3930 ng/g lipid), 67.1 (range=7.88 to 1340 ng/g lipid), 37.0 (range=4.04 to 685 ng/g lipid), and 11.1 ng/g lipid (range=1.69 to 44.0 ng/g lipid), respectively. Early and middle developmental stage samples had similar concentrations of PCBs and organochlorine pesticides on a wet-mass basis (ng/g tissue extracted), but the concentrations doubled by the late stage. This increase is most likely attributable to the 50% increase in lipid content observed in the late-stage yolk. These findings indicate that an early-stage sample cannot be directly compared to a late-stage sample, especially from different nests. These preliminary findings also allowed us to calculate the minimum number of eggs per nest required for analysis to obtain an acceptable mean concentration per nest. More research is required to investigate geographical trends of contaminant concentrations and potential health effects (i.e., abnormalities) caused by these contaminants on sea turtle development.	1	pesticide
16581552	Association of in utero organochlorine pesticide exposure and fetal growth and length of gestation in an agricultural population.	From 1940 through the 1970s, organochlorine compounds were widely used as insecticides in the United States. Thereafter, their use was severely restricted after recognition of their persistence in the environment, their toxicity in animals, and their potential for endocrine disruption. Although substantial evidence exists for the fetal toxicity of organochlorines in animals, information on human reproductive effects is conflicting. We investigated whether infants' length of gestation, birth weight, and crown-heel length were associated with maternal serum levels of 11 different organochlorine pesticides: p,p -dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (p,p -DDT), p,p -dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (p,p -DDE), o,p -dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (o,p -DDT), hexachlorobenzene (HCB), gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (gamma-HCCH), gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (gamma-HCCH), dieldrin, heptachlor epoxide, oxychlordane, trans-nonachlor, and mirex. Our subjects were a birth cohort of 385 low-income Latinas living in the Salinas Valley, an agricultural community in California. We observed no adverse associations between maternal serum organochlorine levels and birth weight or crown-heel length. We found decreased length of gestation with increasing levels of lipid-adjusted HCB (adjusted gamma = -0.47 weeks; p = 0.05). We did not find reductions in gestational duration associated with any of the other organochlorine pesticides. Our finding of decreased length of gestation related to HCB does not seem to have had clinical implications for this population, given its relatively low rate of preterm delivery (6.5%).	1	pesticide
16595379	Mixed-effect models for evaluating multiple measures of atrazine exposure among custom applicators.	The exposure of custom (or commercial) applicators to the herbicide atrazine was measured in environmental (hand wash and dermal patch) and biological (urine and saliva) samples. Surrogate exposure data, such as amount of atrazine sprayed, were also collected. A systematic sampling design was used that included both spray and nonspray days. Fifteen applicators were sampled 5 to 7 days each during a 6-week spring spray season for a total of 89 sampled days. Mixed-effect regression modeling was used to examine the relationship among the surrogate, environmental, and biological atrazine exposure measures. Surrogate measures of atrazine application (either kg of atrazine sprayed or spray atrazine [yes/no]) were significantly associated with increased levels of atrazine or atrazine equivalents (eq) in hand wash, thigh patch, 4-6 p.m. saliva, and 24-hour urine samples. Two days of spraying information (day of sampling and day before sampling) were needed to optimally estimate atrazine biomarkers in the biological samples, whereas only 1 day of spraying information (day of sampling) was needed to estimate atrazine levels in the environmental samples. Thigh and hand atrazine exposures were significantly associated with increased atrazine and atrazine eq. levels in the 4-6 p.m. saliva and 24-hour urine samples, respectively. Levels of 4-6 p.m. salivary atrazine were also significantly associated with increased levels of 24-hour urinary atrazine eq. Atrazine levels in the 4-6 p.m. saliva samples tracked most closely with evening and next morning urinary atrazine eq. Number of days into the study at the time of sample collection predicted urinary and salivary atrazine levels independent of other fixed effects. These results indicate that either surrogate, environmental, or biological exposure measures can be used in appropriately specified models to estimate urinary and salivary atrazine biomarker levels.	1	pesticide
16599166	Effects of sub-lethal concentrations of synthetic insecticides and Callitris glaucophylla extracts on the development of Aedes aegypti.	Synthetic and botanical insecticides can have a profound effect on the developmental period, growth, adult emergence, fecundity, fertility, and egg hatch, resulting in effective control at sub-lethal concentrations. This paper investigated sub-lethal concentrations of fenitrothion, lambda-cyhalothrin, and Callitris glaucophylla Joy Thomps. & L.P. Johnson (Cupressaceae) extract to characterize their effects on the development of Aedes aegypti L. (Diptera: Culicidae) mosquito larvae. The LC25, LC50, and LC75 (four replicates) were used for each synthetic insecticide and the LC25 and LC75 (four replicates) were used for C. glaucophylla. Observations of larval mortality, duration of larval stage, pupal mortality, duration of pupal stage, adult emergence, sex ratio, and malformations were recorded over 14 days. A dose-response effect was observed for all insecticides. Although C. glaucophylla extract doses were higher than synthetic insecticide doses, the LC75 treatment outperformed synthetics by completely prohibiting adult emergence. Consequently, this botanical is recommended for field application either in combination with synthetic or natural insecticides or alone.	1	pesticide
16665224	5-enolpyruvylshikimate 3-phosphate synthase, the target enzyme of the herbicide glyphosate, is synthesized as a precursor in a higher plant.	Cell cultures of Corydalis sempervirens adapted to growth in the presence of 5 millimolar glyphosate overproduce the herbicide's target enzyme, 5-enolpyruvylshikimate 3-phosphate (EPSP) synthase, 30- to 40-fold. In vitro translation of total RNA and poly(A)-RNA coupled with immunoprecipitation showed that the protein is synthesized as a precursor of relative molecular weight (M(r)) 53900 +/- 900 as compared to M(r) 45500 +/- 1000 of the mature enzyme. Translatable activity of mRNA for EPSP-synthase in glyphosate-adapted cultures is tenfold higher than in nonadapted cultures.	1	pesticide
16665703	Glyphosate effects on carbon assimilation and gas exchange in sugar beet leaves.	The mechanism responsible for the inhibition of net carbon exchange (NCE) which was reported previously (DR Geiger et al. 1986 Plant Physiol 82: 468-472) was investigated by applying glyphosate [N-(phosphonomethyl)glycine] to exporting leaves of sugar beet (Beta vulgaris L.). Leaf internal CO(2) concentration (C(i)) remained constant despite decreases in stomatal conductance and NCE following glyphosate treatment, indicating that the cause of the inhibition was a slowing of carbon assimilation rather than decreased conductance of CO(2). Throughout a range of CO(2) concentrations, NCE rate at a given C(i) declined gradually, with the time-series of response curves remaining parallel. Gas exchange measurements revealed that disruption of chloroplast carbon metabolism was an early and important factor in mediating these glyphosate effects, perhaps by slowing the rate of ribulose bisphosphate regeneration. An increase in the CO(2) compensation point accompanied the decrease in NCE and this increase was hastened by stepwise lowering of the ambient CO(2) concentration. Eventually the CO(2) compensation point approached the CO(2) level of air and the difference between internal and external CO(2) concentrations decreased. In control and in glyphosate-treated plants, both carbon assimilation and photorespiration at atmospheric CO(2) level were inhibited to a similar extent of air level of O(2). Maintaining leaves in low O(2) concentration did not prevent the decline in NCE rate.	1	pesticide
16683630	Organochlorines in antarctic and arctic avian top predators: a comparison between the South Polar Skua and two species of northern hemisphere gulls.	Different organochlorine compounds (OCs) were measured in the blood of breeding south polar skuas (Catharacta maccormicki) at Svarthamaren, Dronning Maud Land (Antarctica) and compared to those in two species of northern hemisphere gulls: the Arctic glaucous gull (Larus hyperboreus) and the subarctic great black-backed gull (Larus marinus). The skuas had 8% and 29% of the SigmaOC levels (45 ng/g, wet weight) of glaucous gulls (591 ng/g) and great black-backed gulls (158 ng/g), respectively. Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and p,p'-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (p,p'-DDE) were very low in skuas compared to northern gulls, but the mean hexachlorobenzene (HCB) level was 1.7 times higher than in great black-backed gulls and one-third of the glaucous gull level. Mirex levels in skuas were among the highest reported in birds, the mean level being 3 and 26 times higher than those in glaucous gull and great black-backed gulls, respectively. In skuas, the mean levels of HCB, oxychlordane, p,p'-DDE, and PCBs increased by about 30% during a 2-week period, and mirex increased by nearly 60%. In glacuous gulls, HCB, p,p'-DDE, and PCBs increased by 10-20%. For HCB, mirex, and oxychlordane, only a relatively small proportion of the increase in skuas could be explained by changes in lipid pools and the levels at first sampling, compared to glaucous gulls. Thus, skuas were probably accumulating these compounds when present in Antarctica. p,p'-DDE and PCB levels, in contrast, seemed much more stable in the skuas. Relatively high levels of mirex and HCB in south polar skuas are concerning with regard to potential adverse effects.	1	pesticide
16691545	Potential of imidacloprid to control four species of psocids (Psocoptera: Liposcelididae) infesting stored grain.	The effectiveness of the neonicotinoid insecticide imidacloprid was evaluated against four psocid pests of stored grain. This research was undertaken because of the growing importance of psocids in stored grain and the need to identify methods for their control. The mortality and reproduction of adults of Liposcelis bostrychophila Badonnel, L. entomophila (Enderlein), L. decolor (Pearman) and L. paeta Pearman in wheat treated with imidacloprid were determined. There were five application rates (0.5, 1, 2, 5 and 10 mg AI kg(-1) grain) and an untreated control. There were significant effects of application rate on both adult mortality and reproduction for all four species, but the effect of imidacloprid was sometimes more pronounced on reproduction. Imidacloprid was most effective against L. bostrychophila, with 100% adult mortality after 7 d at 5 mg AI kg(-1), 14 d at 2 mg AI kg(-1) and 28 d at 0.5 and 1 mg AI kg(-1). No live progeny were produced at 2 mg AI kg(-1). For L. decolor, there was 100% adult mortality after 28 d at 10 mg AI kg(-1) and no live progeny were produced at 2 mg AI kg(-1). For L. entomophila, there was 100% adult mortality after 14 d at 10 mg AI kg(-1) and 28 d at 2 and 5 mg AI kg(-1). No live progeny were produced at 10 mg AI kg(-1). At 10 mg AI kg(-1) there was 100% mortality of L. paeta adults after 28 d exposure and no live progeny developed. Because reproduction at some application rates occurred only in the first 14 d of exposure, it is concluded that the application rate leading to population extinction was 1 mg AI kg(-1) for L. bostrychophila, 2 mg AI kg(-1) for L. decolor and L. entomophila and 5 mg AI kg(-1) for L. paeta. This study shows that imidacloprid has potential as a grain protectant to control all four Liposcelis species in stored grain.	1	pesticide
16713176	Effect of two insecticides and two herbicides on the porcine sperm motility patterns using computer-assisted semen analysis (CASA) in vitro.	The recent decline in sperm concentration observed in men has developed over a short period of time, suggesting that it could be the result of environmental factors. The present study has evaluated the effects of insecticides Malathion and Diazinon, and herbicides Atrazine and Fenoxaprop-Ethyl on porcine sperm viability and motility patterns in vitro using the eosin-nigrosin staining and a computer-assisted semen analyzer (CASA), respectively. Malathion and Fenoxaprop-Ethyl exerted more deleterious effects than Diazinon and Atrazine. Progressive sperm motility was strongly affected whereas the effect on sperm viability was less pronounced. This suggests that a reduction of sperm motility is not necessarily the result of sperm death. Since sperm motility is dependent on energy metabolism the mechanism of action of these pesticides might be mediated at the level of the mitochondrion, producing a delay in motility and eventual cell death.	1	pesticide
16721410	Utility of urinary 1-naphthol and 2-naphthol levels to assess environmental carbaryl and naphthalene exposure in an epidemiology study.	We recently reported associations between urinary 1-naphthol (1N) levels and several intermediate measures of male reproductive health, namely sperm motility, serum testosterone levels, and sperm DNA damage. However, because 1N is a major urinary metabolite of both naphthalene and the insecticide carbaryl, exposure misclassification stemming from differences in exposure source was probable and interpretation of the results was limited. As naphthalene, but not carbaryl, is also metabolized to 2-naphthol (2N), the relationship of urinary 1N to 2N within an individual may give information about source of 1N. Utilizing data from two previous studies that measured both 1N and 2N in urine of men exposed to either carbaryl or naphthalene, the present study employed several methods to differentiate urinary 1N arising from exposures to carbaryl and naphthalene among men in the reproductive health study. When re-evaluating the reproductive health data, techniques for identifying 1N source involved exploring interaction terms, stratifying the data set based on 1N/2N ratios, and performing an exposure calibration using a linear 1N to 2N relationship from a study of workers exposed to naphthalene in jet fuel. Despite some inconsistencies between the methods used to distinguish 1N source, we found that 1N from carbaryl exposure is likely responsible for the previously observed association between 1N and sperm motility, whereas 1N from naphthalene exposure is likely accountable for the association between 1N and sperm DNA damage. We demonstrate that studies of health effects associated with carbaryl should utilize a 1N/2N ratio to identify subgroups in which carbaryl is the primary source of 1N. Conversely, studies of naphthalene-related outcomes may utilize 2N levels to estimate exposure.	1	pesticide
16753957	Dissipation and leaching of (14)C-monocrotophos in Soil Columns under subtropical climate.	Dissipation and leaching behavior of 14C-monocrotophos was studied for 365 days under field conditions using PVC cylinders. The first set (24 cylinders) was spiked with 1.0 microCi 14C-labeled monocrotophos along with 1.06 mg unlabeled monocrotophos to give a concentration of 2 mg kg -1 in the soil up to 15 cm depth. The second set (24 cylinders) received 14C-labeled monocrotophos along with other non-labeled insecticides viz., dimethoate @ 300 g a.i ha-1, deltamethrin @ 12.5 g a.i ha-1, endosulfan @ 750 g a.i ha-1, cypermethrin @ 60 g a.i ha-1, and triazophos @ 600 g a.i ha-1 at an interval of 15 days each as recommended for the cotton crop. 14C-monocrotophos dissipated faster, up to 45% in first 90 days in columns treated with only monocrotophos compared to 25% in columns that received monocrotophos along with other insecticides. However, both the columns showed similar residues 180 days onward. After 180 days of treatment, 46% radiolabeled residues were observed, which reduced up to 39.6% after 365 days. Leaching of 14C-monocrotophos to 15-30 cm soil layer was observed in both the experimental setups. In the 15-30 cm soil layer of both soil columns, up to 0.19 mg 14C-monocrotophos kg-1d. wt. soil was detected after 270 days.	1	pesticide
16757081	Diazinon, chlorpyrifos and parathion are metabolised by multiple cytochromes P450 in human liver.	This research describes both the activation and detoxification of diazinon, chlorpyrifos and parathion by recombinant P450 isozymes and by human liver microsomes that had been characterised for P450 marker activities. Wide variations in activity were found for diazinon (50 microM; 500 microM) activation to diazoxon, chlorpyrifos (100 microM) to chlorpyrifos oxon and parathion (5 microM, 20 microM and 200 microM) to paraoxon in NADPH-dependent reactions. In parallel, the dearylated metabolites pyrimidinol (IHMP), trichloro-2-pyridinol (TCP) and p-nitrophenol (PNP) were produced from diazinon, chlorpyrifos and parathion, respectively, with similarly wide variations in activity. There were significant correlations between diazoxon formation from diazinon (50 microM; 500 microM) with the three CYP3A4/5 marker reactions, while IHMP formation correlated significantly with the three CYP3A4/5 reactions, the CYP2C8 marker reaction (p<0.05) and the CYP2C19 marker (p<0.01). Chlorpyrifos oxon formation from chlorpyrifos did not correlate with any of the P450 markers but TCP formation correlated with one of the CYP3A4/5 reactions (p<0.01) and CYP2C8 (p<0.01), CYP2C19 (p<0.01) and CYP1A2 (p<0.01) mediated reactions. There were significant relationships between paraoxon formation from parathion (5 microM, 20 microM and 200 microM) and the CYP3A4/5, CYP2C8 and CYP1A2 mediated reactions, although only the latter two isoforms correlated significantly with the lowest parathion concentration. Recombinant CYPs 2D6, 2C19, 3A5, 3A4 were most efficient in producing diazoxon and IHMP from diazinon; CYPs 2D6, 3A5, 2B6 and 3A4 were best at producing chlorpyrifos-oxon and CYPs 2C19, 2D6, 3A5 and 3A4 at producing TCP from chlorpyrifos (100 microM). These data strongly suggest that CYPs 3A4/5, 2C8, 1A2, 2C19 and 2D6 are primarily involved in the metabolism of all three OPs, although the profile of participating isoforms was different for each of the pesticides suggesting that chemical structure influences which P450s mediate the reaction. The marked inter-individual variation in expression of the various P450 isozymes may result in sub-populations of individuals that produce higher systemic oxon levels with increased susceptibility to OP toxicity.	1	pesticide
16765970	Development of pressurized subcritical water extraction combined with stir bar sorptive extraction for the analysis of organochlorine pesticides and chlorobenzenes in soils.	An analytical method for the determination of several organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) like hexachlorocyclohexanes (HCHs), cyclodiene derivates (dieldrin, aldrin, endrin, heptachlor, heptachlor epoxide, endrin aldehyde, endosulfan and ensodulfan sulphate) and DDX compounds (p,p'-DDE, p,p'-DDD and p,p'-DDT) as well as chlorobenzenes in soils has been developed. The procedure is based on pressurized subcritical water extraction (PSWE) followed by stir bar sorptive extraction (SBSE) and subsequent thermodesorption-gas chromatography/mass spectrometry analysis. Significant PSWE and SBSE parameters were optimized using spiked soil and water samples. For the PSWE of the organochlorine compounds, water modified with acetonitrile as the extraction solvent, at an extraction temperature of 120 degrees C, and three cycles of 10 min extraction proved to be optimal. Under optimized conditions, the figures of merit, such as precision, accuracy and detection limits were evaluated. The detection limits obtained for soil samples were in the range 0.002-4.7 ng/g. Recoveries between 4.1 and 85.2% were achieved from samples spiked at a concentration level of 25-155 ng/g. The main advantages of this method are the avoidance of clean-up and concentration procedures as well as the significant reduction of the required volume of organic solvents. The described method was applied to the determination of the pollutants in soil samples collected from a polluted area, the Bitterfeld region (Germany). The results obtained by PSWE-SBSE were in a good agreement with those obtained by a reference method, a conventional pressurized liquid extraction (PLE).	1	pesticide
16813292	Digging behavior of Solenopsis invicta workers when exposed to contact insecticides.	ABSTRACT Contact between ants and insecticides is a prerequisite for contact insecticides to be effective in the control of red imported fire ants, Solenopsis invicta Buren. Typically, passive contact occurs in the insecticide application process, but ants also may actively contact insecticides by digging in treated soil or walking on a treated soil surface. Laboratory experiments were conducted to determine whether fire ant workers would dig sand treated with contact insecticides in two different scenarios: (1) no-choice bioassays where insecticide-treated sand was the only available digging substrate, and (2) two-choice bioassays where nontoxicant sand was also available for digging. Eight insecticides that are currently registered in the United States for imported fire ant control were tested. They include acephate, bifenthrin, carbaryl, cyfluthrin, deltamethrin, gamma-cyhalothrin, permethrin, and pyrethrin. Workers dug the treated sand for every insecticide tested, even at concentrations up to 10 times of the lowest lethal concentration (LLC) which caused 100% mortality in a toxicity bioassay. However, generally, insecticides significantly reduced the digging effort, even at a concentration that did not cause any significant mortality in the toxicity bioassay.	1	pesticide
16813311	An endemic population of western poplar clearwing moths (Lepidoptera: Sesiidae) invades a monoculture of hybrid poplar.	Western poplar clearwing, Paranthrene robiniae (Hy. Edwards) (Lepidoptera: Sesiidae), is endemic in Pacific Northwest riparian habitats at low population densities. These moths have colonized commercial hybrid poplar (Populus spp.) plantings. Moth populations increased rapidly and became a major pest. Trap catches of male moths in mid-season surveys increased 190-fold from 95 in 2001 to >18,500 in 2002 across 6597 ha of poplars monitored. The outbreak of western poplar clearwings was widespread in 2002. Pheromone-baited traps placed one trap per 81.75 ha over 13,274 ha of commercial poplars captured >108,000 male moths in 2002. Damage to commercial poplars included girdling of saplings and burrows in limbs and trunks of trees. Repeated applications of chlorpyrifos failed to reduce the abundance of moths in 2002. Two management strategies over two separate plantations of approximately 6500 ha each were contrasted. Future control strategies recommend a halt to the use of contact insecticides that target adult moths. Short-term (3-5 yr) control should involve a pheromone-based mating disruption strategy followed eventually by selection of a clone that is less susceptible to P. robiniae attack.	1	pesticide
16830469	[Determination of organophosphorus pesticide residues in tobacco by high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry].	A novel and rapid method based on high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was developed for determination of organophosphorus pesticide residues (OPs) in tobacco. The OPs were extracted from tobacco samples by acetonitrile under ultrasonication. The extractive was determined by high performance liquid chromatography using methanol-water (containing 0.1% ammonium acetate) (95:5, v/v) as mobile phase. The OPs were detected using a tandem mass spectrometer with electrospray ionization in multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode. The OPs, such as dimethoate, trichlorfon, chlorpyrifos, methamidophos and acephate could be detected quantitatively within 2.5 min. The linear calibration curves were obtained in the entire range (1-200 microg/L) for all the above pesticides (r > 0.998). The average recoveries in tobacco obtained were ranged from 77% to 104%. The limits of detection were between 1.0 microg/kg and 5.0 microg/kg.	1	pesticide
16859104	Visual targets for capture and management of house flies, Musca domestica L.	House flies and stable flies were collected on a Florida dairy farm using a commercial Alsynite sticky cylinder trap that was either used alone or covered with white, blue, or black outdoor awning fabric. Collections of both species of flies were highest on exposed Alsynite (house flies, 506.2 flies/day; stable flies, 19.1) followed by blue fabric (house flies, 308.1 flies/day; stable flies 12.5). Responses of both species to white and black fabric were 70% lower than to either of the former materials. When blue fabric was used to cover 50% of the surface area of Alsynite cylinders, house fly responses were significantly higher (290.2 flies/day) than to blue fabric alone (165.2); stable fly responses to the bi-colored target were significantly higher (152.6) than to Alsynite alone (93.8). Comparison of fly counts in the blue-covered versus uncovered Alsynite with traps of a single material indicated that house fly attraction to blue fabric was enhanced by the presence of clear Alsynite, whereas stable fly attraction to Alsynite was enhanced by the presence of blue fabric. The presence of blue+Alsynite visual targets increased collections of house flies in pans of dry fly bait but not in baited jug traps. Visual targets treated with 1.2% bifenthrin controlled >50% and 90% of house flies in large cages by days two and four after placement, respectively.	1	pesticide
16862293	Effect of pesticides on nitrification in aquatic sediment.	The aim of this work was to study the effect of the herbicides glyphosate, nonanoic acid, and dichlorprop-P and the insecticides potassium oil, malation and Pyretrin and their combinations on nitrification. Nitrification was measured in slurries from the eutrophic and shallow Brabrand Lake (Aarhus, Denmark), by inhibiting oxidation of nitrite to nitrate with chloride. All herbicides and insecticides influenced nitrification. The No Observed Effect Concentration (NOEC) was assessed to be 30 microg.L-1 for glyphosate and nonanoic acid and 1 microg.L-1 for dichlorprop-P. The NOEC for malation and Pyretrin on nitrification was assessed to be 3 microg.L-1. No accumulation effect on nitrification of the insecticides malation and Pyretrin, or of the studied herbicides, was observed, indicating that their environmental impact is low at reduced concentrations, even in combination. The procedure used in this study can provide a useful tool for obtaining concentration limits for pesticides or other chemicals in a short period of time.	1	pesticide
16865906	Decay of dinitroaniline herbicides and organophosphorus insecticides during brewing of lager beer.	This article examines the fate of four pesticides that can be present during the brewing of lager beer. For this purpose, malted barley was spiked at 2 mg/kg with pendimethalin and trifluralin (dinitroaniline herbicides) and fenitrothion and malathion (organophosphorus insecticides). Analyses of pesticide residues were carried out by a gas chromatograph with an electron capture detector, and their identity was confirmed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Cleanup was necessary for the malt and spent grain samples. Beginning with mashing and ending with the final product 4 months later, various samples (spent grain, sweet wort, brewer wort, and beer) were taken to determine the concentration of the targeted residual pesticides during the various beer making phases. In all cases, the residual levels recorded in sweet wort sampled after the mashing phase were below the respective maximum residue limits established by Spanish legislation for barley. Significant proportions of pesticide residues (17 to 40%) were retained on the spent grain. Applying the standard first-order kinetics equation (r > 0.91), the half-lives obtained for the four compounds during the storage of the spent grain (3.5 months) varied from 138 days (fenitrothion) to 192 days (malathion and pendimethalin). Herbicide residues practically disappeared (<0.3%) after wort boiling, whereas the percentages of the remaining insecticides, fenitrothion and malathion, ranged from 3.5 to 4.3%, respectively, at this time. No residues of dinitroaniline compounds were detected in young beer, whereas there was a significant reduction in fenitrothion (58%) and malathion (71%) residues during fermentation. Lagering and filtering processes also reduced the content of the organophosphorus insecticides (33 to 37%). Finally, after the storage period (3 months), the content of fenitrothion was reduced by 75%, with malathion residues being below its detection limit.	1	pesticide
16880753	Insecticide resistance development in Culex quinquefasciatus (Say), Aedes aegypti (L.) and Aedes albopictus (Skuse) larvae against malathion, permethrin and temephos.	Laboratory-bred females of Culex quinquefasciatus, Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus from the insectarium, Unit of Medical Entomology, Institute for Medical Research were used in the experiment. The late third stage of the F0 larvae which survived the high selection pressure of malathion, permethrin and temephos were reared and colonies were established from adults that emerged. Cx. quinquefasciatus larvae were subjected to selection by malathion and permethrin for 40 generations, Ae. aegypti larvae to malathion, permethrin and temephos for 32 generations and Ae. albopictus larvae were selected against malathion and permethrin for 32 generations and 20 generations against temephos. The rate of resistance development was measured by LC50 value. Cx. quinquefasciatus larvae developed higher resistance to malathion and permethrin compared to Ae. aegypti and Ae. albopictus. On the whole, permethrin resistance developed at a faster rate than malathion and temephos.	1	pesticide
16883275	Resistance development and insecticide susceptibility in Culex quinquefasciatus against selection pressure of malathion and permethrin and its relationship to cross-resistance towards propoxur.	To determine resistance level and characterize malathion and permethrin resistance in Culex quinquefasciatus, two methods were used namely: WHO procedures of larval bioassay to determine the susceptibility of lethal concentration (LC) and adult bioassay to determine the lethal time (LT) which are resistant to malathion and permethrin. These mosquito strains were bred in the Insectarium, Division of Medical Entomology, IMR. Thousands of late fourth instar larvae which survived the selection pressure to yield 50% mortality of malathion and permethrin were reared and colonies were established from adults that emerged. Larvae from these colonies were then subjected to the subsequent 10 generations in the test undertaken for malathion resistant strain (F61 - F70) and permethrin resistant strain (F54 - F63). Selection pressure at 50% - 70% mortality level was applied to the larvae of each successive generation. The rate of resistance development and resistance ratio (RR) were calculated by LC5 0 for larval bioassay and LT50 value for adult bioassay. The lab bred Cx. quinquefasciatus was used as a susceptible strain for comparison purpose. The adult bioassay test was carried out by using diagnostic dosages of malathion 5.0%, permethrin 0.75% and with propoxur 0.1%. All bioassay results were subjected to probit analysis. The results showed that LC5 0 for both malathion (F61 - F70) and permethrin (F54 - F63) resistant Cx. quinquefasciatus increased steadily to the subsequent 10 generations indicating a marked development of resistance. The adult female malathion resistant strain have developed high resistance level to malathion diagnostic dosage with resistance ratio 9.3 to 9.6 folds of resistance. Permethrin resistance ratio remained as 1.0 folds of resistance at every generation. It was obvious that malathion resistance developing at a higher rate in adult females compared to permethrin. Female adults exposed to 2 hours of exposure period for propoxur 0.1% showed presence of cross-resistance among the both strains of mosquitoes towards propoxur and it was indicated by 70%-100% mortality at 24 hours post-recovery period.	1	pesticide
16906504	Comparing the impact of conventional pesticide and use of a transgenic pest-resistant crop on the beneficial carabid beetle Pterostichus melanarius.	The potential impact of a chemical pesticide control method has been compared with that of transgenic plants expressing a protease inhibitor conferring insect resistance by utilising a tritrophic system comprising the crop plant Brassica napus (L.) (Oilseed rape), the pest mollusc Deroceras reticulatum (Müller) and the predatory carabid beetle Pterostichus melanarius (Illiger). Cypermethrin, as the most widely used pesticide in UK oilseed rape (OSR) cultivation, was selected as the conventional treatment. OSR expressing a cysteine protease inhibitor, oryzacystatin-1 (OC-1), was the transgenic comparator. In feeding trials, D. reticulatum showed no significant long-term effects on measured life history parameters (survival, weight gain, food consumption) as a result of exposure to either the cypermethrin or OC-1 treatment. However, D. reticulatum was able to respond to the presence of the dietary inhibitor by producing two novel proteases following exposure to OC-1-expressing OSR. Similarly, P. melanarius showed no detectable alterations in mortality, weight gain or food consumption when feeding on D. reticulatum previously fed either pesticide-contaminated or GM plant material. Furthermore, as with the slug, a novel form of protease, approximately M(r) 27 kDa, was induced in the carabid in response to feeding on slugs fed OC-1-expressing OSR.	1	pesticide
16912982	Determination of chlorpyrifos and its metabolites in rat brain tissue using coupled-column liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry.	A method has been developed to quantify chlorpyrifos (O,O-diethyl-O-[3,5,6,-trichloro-2-pyridyl] phosphorothionate) and its metabolites chlorpyrifos-oxon (O,O-diethyl-O-[3,5,6,trichloro-2-pyridinyl] phosphate) and TCP (3,5,6,-trichloro-2-pyridinol) in rat brain tissue by coupled-column liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (LC/LC/ESI-MS/MS). Rat brains were homogenized and treated by protein precipitation using ice-cold acetonitrile. The supernatant was directly injected onto the coupled-column system. Sample clean-up was achieved on a Zorbax Extend-C(18) column (2.1 x 50 mm, 5 microm) using a mobile phase of acetonitrile/water with 0.0025% formic acid (40:60, v/v). The compounds were separated isocratically on a Zorbax Eclipse XDB C(8) column (2.0 x 150 mm, 5 microm) using a mobile phase of acetonitrile/water with 0.0025% formic acid (75:25, v/v). Chlorpyrifos and chlorpyrifos-oxon were detected in positive ion mode using multiple reaction monitoring (MRM). TCP was detected in negative ion mode using precursor-to-precursor transition monitoring. The method was validated and the specificity, linearity, limit of quantitation (LOQ), precision, accuracy, stability, and recoveries were determined. Calibration curves for all three analytes yielded correlation coefficients of 0.993 or greater. The LOQs were 25.3 ng/g for chlorpyrifos and 6.3 ng/g for chlorpyrifos-oxon and TCP. All precision relative standard deviations (RSDs) were less than 16% for the LOQ and less than 11% for the other QC samples. This method was successfully applied to six rats that were injected subcutaneously with chlorpyrifos.	1	pesticide
16961938	Efficacy of bifenthrin-impregnated bednets against Anopheles funestus and pyrethroid-resistant Anopheles gambiae in North Cameroon.	BACKGROUND: Recent field studies indicated that insecticide-treated bednets (ITNs) maintain their efficacy despite a high frequency of the knock-down resistance (kdr) gene in Anopheles gambiae populations. It was essential to evaluate ITNs efficacy in areas with metabolic-based resistance. METHODS: Bifenthrin was used in this experiment because it is considered a promising candidate for bednets impregnation. Nets were treated at 50 mg/m2, a dose that has high insecticidal activity on kdr mosquitoes and at 5 mg/m2, a dose that kills 95% of susceptible mosquitoes under laboratory conditions with 3 minutes exposure. Bednets were holed to mimic physical damage. The trial was conducted in three experimental huts from Pitoa, North-Cameroon where Anopheles gambiae displays metabolic resistance and cohabits with An. funestus. RESULTS: Bifenthrin at 50 mg/m2 significantly reduced anophelines' entry rate (>80%). This was not observed at 5 mg/m2. Both treatments increased exophily in An. gambiae, and to a lesser extent in An. funestus. With bifenthrin at high dosage, over 60% reduction in blood feeding and 75-90% mortality rates were observed in both vectors. Despite presence of holes, only a single An. gambiae and two An. funestus females were collected inside the treated net, and all were found dead. The same trends were observed with low dosage bifenthrin though in most cases, no significant difference was found with the untreated control net. CONCLUSION: Bifenthrin-impregnated bednets at 50 mg/m2 were efficient in the reduction of human-vector contact in Pitoa. Considerable personal protection was gained against An. funestus and metabolic pyrethroid resistant An. gambiae populations.	1	pesticide
16981889	A nicotinic acetylcholine receptor mutation (Y151S) causes reduced agonist potency to a range of neonicotinoid insecticides.	Neonicotinoid insecticides are potent selective agonists of insect nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). Since their introduction in 1991, resistance to neonicotinoids has been slow to develop, but it is now established in some insect field populations such as the planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens, a major rice pest in many parts of Asia. We have reported recently the identification of a target-site mutation (Y151S) within two nAChR subunits (Nlalpha1 and Nlalpha3) from a laboratory-selected field population of N. lugens. In the present study, we have examined the influence of this mutation upon the functional properties of recombinant nAChRs expressed in Xenopus oocytes (as hybrid nAChRs, co-expressed with a rat beta2 subunit). The agonist potency of several nicotinic agonists has been examined, including all of the neonicotinoid insecticides that are currently licensed for either crop protection or animal health applications (acetamiprid, clothianidin, dinotefuran, imidacloprid, nitenpyram, thiacloprid and thiamethoxam). The Y151S mutation was found to have no significant effect on the maximal current (I(max)) observed with the endogenous agonist, acetylcholine. In contrast, a significant reduction in I(max) was observed for all neonicotinoids (the I(max) for mutant nAChRs ranged from 13 to 81% of that observed on wild-type receptors). In addition, nAChRs containing the Y151S mutation caused a significant rightward shift in agonist dose-response curves for all neonicotinoids, but of varying magnitude (shifts in EC(50) values ranged from 1.3 to 3.6-fold). The relationship between neonicotinoid structure and their potency on nAChRs containing the Y151S target-site mutation is discussed.	1	pesticide
16982521	Rate of degradation of lambda-cyhalothrin and methomyl in grapes (Vitis vinifera L.).	Rates of degradation of lambda-cyhalothrin and methomyl residues in grape are reported. The dissipation behavior of both insecticides followed first-order rate kinetics with similar patterns at standard and double-dose applications. Residues of lambda-cyhalothrin were lost with pre-harvest intervals (PHI) of 12.0-12.5 and 15.0-15.5 days, corresponding to the applications at 25 and 50 g a.i. ha-1, respectively. In the case of methomyl, residues were lost with PHI of 55.0 and 61.0 days, following applications at 1 and 2 kg a.i. ha-1, respectively. The PHI, recommended on the basis of the experimental results, was shown to be effective in minimizing residue load of these insecticides below their maximum residue limits (MRLs) in vineyard samples.	1	pesticide
16986804	Effects of pesticides on soil invertebrates in laboratory studies: a review and analysis using species sensitivity distributions.	Species sensitivity distributions (SSD) and 5% hazardous concentrations (HC5) are distribution-based approaches for assessing environmental risks of pollutants. These methods have potential for application in pesticide risk assessments, but their applicability for assessing pesticide risks to soil invertebrate communities has not been evaluated. Using data obtained in a systematic review, the present study investigates the relevance of SSD and HC5 for predicting pesticide risks to soil invertebrates. Altogether, 1950 laboratory toxicity data were obtained, representing 250 pesticides and 67 invertebrate taxa. The majority (96%) of pesticides have toxicity data for fewer than five species. Based on a minimum of five species, the best available endpoint data (acute mortality median lethal concentration) enabled SSD and HC5 to be calculated for 11 pesticides (atrazine, carbendazim, chlorpyrifos, copper compounds, diazinon, dimethoate, gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane, lambda-cyhalothrin, parathion, pentachlorophenol, and propoxur). Arthropods and oligochaetes exhibit pronounced differences in their sensitivity to most of these pesticides. The standard test earthworm species, Eisenia fetida sensu lato, is the species that is least sensitive to insecticides based on acute mortality, whereas the standard Collembola test species, Folsomia candida, is among the most sensitive species for a broad range of toxic modes of action (biocide, fungicide, herbicide, and insecticide). These findings suggest that soil arthropods should be tested routinely in regulatory risk assessments. In addition, the data indicate that the uncertainty factor for earthworm acute mortality tests (i.e., 10) does not fully cover the range of earthworm species sensitivities and that acute mortality tests would not provide the most sensitive risk estimate for earthworms in the majority (95%) of cases.	1	pesticide
16996190	Modulation of aromatase activity and mRNA by various selected pesticides in the human choriocarcinoma JEG-3 cell line.	Aromatase enzyme plays a central role in steroidogenesis by converting androgens to estrogens and has been proposed as an important molecular target for many environmental endocrine disrupters chemicals. In this study, we have screened 30 selected pesticides with known, unknown or supposed effects on aromatase activity, for their ability to modulate aromatase activity in the human choriocarcinoma JEG-3 cell line after both short (2 h) and long exposure (24 h). All pesticides were tested at concentrations up to 10 microM that did not cause cytotoxicity after 24h of exposure, as verified by the MTT viability assay. Four pesticides inhibited aromatase activity after 2 h of exposure: prochloraz (IC(50)<1 microM), fenbuconazole (IC(50)=1.1 microM), propiconazole (IC(50)=1.5 microM) and fenarimol (IC(50)=3.3 microM). Among them, prochloraz and fenbuconazole also exerted inhibitory effects after 24h. Toxaphen (10 microM) and heptachlor (10 microM) inhibited aromatase activity after 24h exposure only. Nine pesticides induced aromatase activity: aldrin, chlordane, cypermethrin, parathion-methyl, endosulfan, methoxychlor, oxadiazon, metolachlor and atrazine after 24 h of exposure, while tributyltin induced aromatase activity at 1 nM and 3 nM after both 2 h and 24 h of exposure, respectively. To further investigate the mechanisms of aromatase induction we measured CYP19 mRNA expression and showed that methoxychlor, aldrin, chlordane and tributyltin induced the transcription of the cyp19 gene. In addition, none of the aromatase inducers transactivated the retinoic acid receptor (RAR) in JEG-3 stably transfected with a RARE-luciferase plasmid while the RAR agonist TTNPB induced both aromatase and luciferase expression in these cells. Our results, which provide new data for fenbuconazole, as an inhibitor of human aromatase, and for eight pesticides as aromatase inducers, are discussed with regards to the regulation of aromatase expression in the JEG-3 cellular context.	1	pesticide
16999969	Molecularly imprinted polymers for triazine herbicides prepared by multi-step swelling and polymerization method. Their application to the determination of methylthiotriazine herbicides in river water.	Uniformly-sized, molecularly imprinted polymers (MIPs) for atrazine, ametryn and irgarol were prepared by a multi-step swelling and polymerization method using ethylene glycol dimethacrylate as a cross-linker and methacrylic acid (MAA), 2-(trifluoromethyl) acrylic acid (TFMAA) or 4-vinylpyridine either as a functional monomer or not. The MIP for atrazine prepared using MAA showed good molecular recognition abilities for chlorotriazine herbicides, while the MIPs for ametryn and irgarol prepared using TFMAA showed excellent molecular recognition abilities for methylthiotriazine herbicides. A restricted access media-molecularly imprinted polymer (RAM-MIP) for irgarol was prepared followed by in situ hydrophilic surface modification using glycerol dimethacrylate and glycerol monomethacrylate as hydrophilic monomers. The RAM-MIP was applied to selective pretreatment and enrichment of methylthiotriazine herbicides, simetryn, ametryn and prometryn, in river water, followed by their separation and UV detection via column-switching HPLC. The calibration graphs of these compounds showed good linearity in the range of 50-500 pg/mL (r > 0.999) with a 100 mL loading of a river water sample. The quantitation limits of simetryn, ametryn and prometryn were 50 pg/mL, and the detection limits were 25 pg/mL. The recoveries of simetryn, ametryn and prometryn at 50 pg/mL were 101%, 95.6% and 95.1%, respectively. This method was successfully applied for the simultaneous determination of simetryn, ametryn and prometryn in river water.	1	pesticide
17007124	Xenoendocrine pollutants may reduce size of sexual organs in East Greenland polar bears (Ursus maritimus).	Reproductive organs from 55 male and 44 female East Greenland polar bears were examined to investigate the potential negative impact from organohalogen pollutants (OHCs). Multiple regressions normalizing for age showed a significant inverse relationship between OHCs and testis length and baculum length and weight, respectively, and was found in both subadults (dichlorodiphenyl trichloroethanes, dieldrin, chlordanes, hexacyclohexanes, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs)) and adults (hexachlorobenzene [HCB]) (all p < 0.05). Baculum bone mineral densities decreased with increasing chlordanes, DDTs, and HCB in subadults and adults, respectively (all p < 0.05). In females, a significant inverse relationship was found between ovary length and sigma PCB (p = 0.03) and sigma CHL (p < 0.01), respectively, and between ovary weight and sigma PBDE (p < 0.01) and uterine horn length and HCB (p = 0.02). The study suggests thatthere is an impact from xenoendocrine pollutants on the size of East Greenland polar bear genitalia. This may pose a riskto this polar bear subpopulation in the future because of reduced sperm and egg quality/quantity and uterus and penis size/robustness.	1	pesticide
17017223	Recent emergence of insensitive acetylcholinesterase in Chinese populations of the mosquito Culex pipiens (Diptera: Culicidae).	Organophosphate/carbamate target resistance has emerged in Culex pipiens L. (Diptera: Culicidae), the vector of Wuchereria bancrofti and West Nile virus (family Flaviviridae, genus Flavivirus) in China. The insensitive acetylcholinesterase was detected in only one of 20 samples collected on a north-to-south transect. According to previous findings, a unique mutation, G119S in the ace-1 gene, explained this high insensitivity. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that the mutation G119S recently detected in China results from an independent mutation event. The G119S mutation thus occurred at least three times independently within the Cx. pipiens complex, once in the temperate (Cx. p. pipiens) and twice in the tropical form (Cx. p. quinquefasciatus). Bioassays performed with a purified G119S strain indicated that this substitution was associated with high levels of resistance to chlorpyrifos, fenitrothion, malathion, and parathion, but low levels of resistance to dichlorvos, trichlorfon, and fenthion. Hence, it is possible that in China, dichlorvos, trichlorfon, and fenthion will still achieve effective control even in the presence of the G119S mutation.	1	pesticide
17017226	Role of kdr and esterase-mediated metabolism in pyrethroid-resistant populations of Haematobia irritans irritans (Diptera: Muscidae) in Brazil.	The horn fly, Haematobia irritans irritans (L.) (Diptera: Muscidae), has become a problem for Brazilian cattle producers even though its introduction into Brazil is relatively recent. Failure to control this cattle pest is becoming a concern, and horn fly populations from several ranches from the state of Mato Grosso do Sul were surveyed for pyrethroid resistance. Susceptibility bioassays revealed that cypermethrin resistance was widespread and reached high levels in horn fly populations throughout the state, with resistance factors (RFs) ranging from 50.4 to 704.8. Synergist bioassays failed to detect a major role for esterases as a pyrethroid resistance mechanism in these populations, except for the highly pyrethroid-resistant Estrela do Oeste population (RF = 704.8). The kdr sodium channel gene mutation was not detected in eight of the 13 populations, but < 7% of individuals from four populations and 50% of the flies from Estrela do Oeste exhibited this mutation. Neither the superkdr sodium channel gene mutation nor a resistance-associated gene mutation in the HialphaE7 carboxylesterase were found in any of the fly populations. Although target site insensitivity (kdr) and esterase-mediated metabolism occur in horn fly populations from Mato Grosso do Sul state, it seems that they are not the major mechanism causing pyrethroid resistance in most of these populations.	1	pesticide
17018647	Age-related brain cholinesterase inhibition kinetics following in vitro incubation with chlorpyrifos-oxon and diazinon-oxon.	Chlorpyrifos and diazinon are two commonly used organophosphorus insecticides (OPs), and their primary mechanism of action involves the inhibition of acetylcholinesterase by their metabolites chlorpyrifos-oxon (CPO) and diazinon-oxon (DZO), respectively. The study objectives were to assess the in vitro age-related inhibition kinetics of neonatal rat brain cholinesterase (ChE) for CPO and DZO by estimating the bimolecular inhibitory rate constant (k(i)) values. Brain ChE inhibition and k(i) values following CPO and DZO incubation with neonatal Sprague-Dawley rat brain homogenates were determined at postnatal day (PND) 5, 12, and 17 and compared with the corresponding inhibition and k(i) values obtained in the adult rat. A modified Ellman method was utilized for measuring the ChE activity. CPO caused a greater ChE inhibition than DZO as evidenced from the estimated k(i) values of both compounds. Neonatal brain ChE inhibition kinetics exhibited a marked age-related sensitivity to CPO, with the order of ChE inhibition being PND 5 > PND 7 > PND 17 with k(i) values of 0.95, 0.50, and 0.22 nM(-1)hr(-1), respectively. In contrast, DZO ChE inhibition was not age related in the neonatal brain, and the estimated k(i) value at all PND ages was 0.02 nM(-1)hr(-1). These results demonstrated an age- and OP-selective inhibition of rat brain ChE, which may be critically important in understanding the potential sensitivity of juveniles to specific OPs exposures.	1	pesticide
17044521	[Sublethal effect of chlorpyrifos on dynamics of experimental Tetranychus cinnabarinus population].	By using Jackknife technique and Wilcoxon (Gehan) statistic method, the LC35 sublethal effect of chlorpyrifos on the population dynamics of Tetranychus cinnabarinus was studied in laboratory. The results showed that under the conditions of 30 degrees C +/- 1degrees C, (70 +/- 15) % RH and a photoperiod of 16L: 8D, there were no significant differences in the longevity of female adult, F1 hatchability, and sex ratio of T. cinnabarinus between chlorpyrifos treatment and the control, but the total oviposition (42.37 +/- 2.270) and the intrinsic rate of increase (0.3279 +/- 0.0033) in chlorpyrifos treatment were significantly lower than those (52.50 +/- 2.433 and 0.3717 +/- 0.0043, respectively) in the control.	1	pesticide
17052827	Comparison of the acute toxicity for gamma-cyhalothrin and lambda-cyhalothrin to zebra fish and shrimp.	Gamma-cyhalothrin 15CS (GCH) contains only the active stereoisomer of the two isomers found in lambda-cyhalothrin 25EW (LCH). GCH (0.5 x rate) provides equivalent overall insect control as LCH (1 x rate). Both formulations showed high acute toxicity to zebra fish (Brachydanio rerio H.B.) and shrimp (Macrobrachium nippoensis de Haan). The 96-h LC(50(zebra fish,GCH)) is 1.93 microg a.i/L and LC(50(zebra fish,LCH)) is 1.94 microg a.i/L. LC(50(shrimp,GCH)) is 0.28 microg a.i./L and LC(50(shrimp,LCH)) 0.04 microg a.i./L. This indicates that the toxicity to shrimp is likely stereochemistry-dependent. The fates of GCH and LCH are similar in laboratory simulated rice paddy water and their concentrations decrease rapidly, with no GCH or LCH detected after 3 or 4 days. Both are toxic to shrimp in a simulated paddy irrigation reservoir even though treated return water is diluted 5 times. No shrimp fatality is shown in the GCH-treated paddy water after a 4-day holding period, and longer than 5 days is necessary to reach a zero fatality rate for LCH. This is compatible with the 7-day water holding period considered reasonable in agricultural practice.	1	pesticide
17063364	Multi-analyte SPR immunoassays for environmental biosensing of pesticides.	Multi-analyte detection of environmentally relevant pesticides is performed by using a two-channelled surface plasmon resonance (SPR) biosensor. The special design of the SPR instrument allows the determination of several analytes (DDT, chlorpyrifos and carbaryl) via different immobilization formats. First, simultaneous pesticide monitoring is possible by flowing chlorpyrifos, carbaryl or DDT samples separately over each channel of the SPR system, wherein their corresponding recognition element was previously immobilized. The second approach is based on the multiple and combined immobilization of several analyte recognition elements on the sensing surface of one individual flow cell. In this format, the analysis time for all three pesticides varied from 40 to 60 min depending on the number of regeneration cycles. In most cases, similar detection limits were attained for the target analyte irrespective of the assay format, with sensitivity values at the nanogram per litre level (18-50 ng L(-1)). The assay reproducibility was proved through the repeated use of the same sensor surface for over more than 200 assay cycles, whereas the absence of biosensor response to non-related analytes showed the specificity and reliability of the analysis. The SPR instrument, including optics, electronics and microfluidics, is already commercialised by the company SENSIA, SL.	1	pesticide
17089706	Survey of carbamate and organophosphorous pesticide export from a south Florida (U.S.A.) agricultural watershed: implications of sampling frequency on ecological risk estimation.	The objectives of the present study were to characterize the presence of selected carbamate and organophosphorous pesticides in Ten Mile Creek (Fort Pierce, FL, U.S.A.) and to evaluate the implications of sampling frequency on ecological risk estimates. Ten Mile Creek originates in a predominately agricultural watershed that is drained by an extensive network of cross-linked canals. Water samples were collected daily or every other day and were analyzed for azinphos-methyl, chlorpyrifos, diazinon, dimethoate, ethion, fenamiphos, malathion, methidathion, carbaryl, carbofuran, 3-hydroxycarbofuran, methiocarb, methomyl, oxamyl, and propoxur. A total of 457 samples were analyzed for the carbamate suite, and a total of 332 samples were analyzed for the organophosphorous suite. Carbaryl was detected in eight samples; half of these detections occurred on four consecutive days (October 26-29, 2001) at concentrations ranging from 0.33 to 0.95 microg/L. Methomyl was detected in samples collected on five consecutive days (March 30-April 3, 2002) at concentrations ranging from 1.0 to 2.2 microg/L. Oxamyl was detected in four samples, three of which occurred on three consecutive days (February 17-19, 2002) at concentrations ranging from 6.2 to 6.8 microg/L. The carbamates propoxur, 3-hydroxycarbofuran, carbofuran, and methiocarb were not detected. Diazinon and ethion were the only organophosphorous pesticides detected. Diazinon was detected at 0.9 and 0.7 microg/L on January 5, 2002, and on January 6, 2002, respectively. Ethion was detected in 18 consecutive samples (August 3-20, 2001). The mean, maximum, minimum, and median detected concentrations were 0.38, 0.61, 0.30, and 0.33 microg/L, respectively. Results indicate that frequent sampling is necessary to characterize the presence of these pesticides in this intensively drained watershed. This conclusion also may apply to similar canalized watersheds.	1	pesticide
17134388	Environmental and human health impacts of growing genetically modified herbicide-tolerant sugar beet: a life-cycle assessment.	There is ongoing debate concerning the possible environmental and human health impacts of growing genetically modified (GM) crops. Here, we report the results of a life-cycle assessment (LCA) comparing the environmental and human health impacts of conventional sugar beet growing regimes in the UK and Germany with those that might be expected if GM herbicide-tolerant (to glyphosate) sugar beet is commercialized. The results presented for a number of environmental and human health impact categories suggest that growing the GM herbicide-tolerant crop would be less harmful to the environment and human health than growing the conventional crop, largely due to lower emissions from herbicide manufacture, transport and field operations. Emissions contributing to negative environmental impacts, such as global warming, ozone depletion, ecotoxicity of water and acidification and nutrification of soil and water, were much lower for the herbicide-tolerant crop than for the conventional crop. Emissions contributing to summer smog, toxic particulate matter and carcinogenicity, which have negative human health impacts, were also substantially lower for the herbicide-tolerant crop. The environmental and human health impacts of growing GM crops need to be assessed on a case-by-case basis using a holistic approach. LCA is a valuable technique for helping to undertake such assessments.	1	pesticide
17137059	Canine renal cortical necrosis and haemorrhage following ingestion of an Amitraz-formulated insecticide dip.	Amitraz is a formamidine compound used in veterinary medicine as a topical dip to control ticks and mites on dogs and livestock. A 10-year-old female Scottish terrier was presented following the accidental oral administration of a dip containing amitraz. This case report describes the clinical signs, treatment and pathology of this dog. Clinical signs of toxicity from amitraz result from stimulation of alpha2-adrenergic receptors. Amitraz is seldom fatal because the effects can be reversed by alpha2-adrenergic antagonists. The dog recovered from the amitraz toxicity but died 5 days later from acute renal failure.	1	pesticide
17140363	Control of head lice: past, present and future.	Pediculosis capitis is common among children. Rapid and accurate detection is an underlying principle of effective control and the use of a fine-tooth comb in wet, conditioned hair is most sensitive. However, none of the available treatments are fully effective. Of the current pediculicides available over the counter in the UK, those based on malathion are more effective than pyrethroids. Carbaryl is likely to be the most effective insecticide but is only available on prescription. Wet combing with conditioner has proven to be as effective as some over-the-counter lotions for unsupervised use in the home. There are several promising candidates for new insecticidal actives that are likely to be highly effective for a new generation of pediculicides, as well as a variety of unconventional novel treatments.	1	pesticide
17145086	Relating olfactory neurotoxicity to altered olfactory-mediated behaviors in rainbow trout exposed to three currently-used pesticides.	Odor-evoked neurophysiological responses can form the basis for behavioral responses. Here we first characterized olfactory-mediated behavioral and neurophysiological responses of juvenile rainbow trout to the amino acid l-histidine, then looked at whether there were similar responses to the carbamate antisapstain IPBC and the herbicides atrazine and Roundup, and lastly explored how exposures to these pesticides modified the l-histidine responses. Trout were behaviorally attracted to 10(-7)M l-histidine (as assayed in a counter-current olfactometer), but this preference behavior switched to indifference with higher histidine concentrations. Neurophysiologically, the summed electrical responses of peripheral olfactory neurons, as measured using electro-olfactogram (EOG), was 0.843+/-0.252 mV to 10(-7)M l-histidine. Of the pesticides, only Roundup evoked EOGs, indicating the amino acid-based pesticide may have acted as an odorant, and generated a behavioral response: it was avoided at active ingredient [AI; glyphosate isopropyl amine] concentrations > or =10 mg/l. With 30 min pesticide exposures, 10(-7)M l-histidine preference behavior was eliminated following exposure to 1 microg/l IPBC and atrazine, and 100 microg/l AI Roundup. Similarly, 10(-7)M l-histidine-evoked EOGs were significantly reduced by exposure to 1 microg/l IPBC, 10 microg/l atrazine, and 100 microg/l AI Roundup. When combined together, the results demonstrate that typical preference behavior can be abolished when neurophysiological responses are reduced by >60% of control. This asymmetry in response thresholds suggests that behavioral responses may be more sensitive toxicological endpoints than neurophysiological responses.	1	pesticide
17267752	Dorsal unpaired median neurons of locusta migratoria express ivermectin- and fipronil-sensitive glutamate-gated chloride channels.	Together with type A GABA and strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors, glutamate-gated chloride channels (GluCl) are members of the Cys-loop family of ionotropic receptors, which mediate fast inhibitory neurotransmission. To date, GluCls are found in invertebrates only and therefore represent potential specific targets for insecticides, such as ivermectin and fipronil. In this study, we identified the functional expression of GluCls in dorsal unpaired median (DUM) neurons of the metathoracic ganglion of Locusta migratoria using electrophysiological and molecular biological techniques. In whole cell patch-clamped DUM neurons, glutamate-induced changes in both their membrane potentials (current-clamp) and currents (voltage-clamp) were dependent on the chloride equilibrium potential. On continuous application of glutamate, the glutamate-elicited current response became rapidly and completely desensitized. Application of glutamate in the presence of 10 microM fipronil or 100 microM picrotoxin reversibly decreased GluCl-mediated currents by 87 and 39%, respectively. Furthermore, 1 microM ivermectin induced a persistent chloride current, suggesting the expression of ivermectin-sensitive GluCl alpha subunits. A degenerate PCR/RACE strategy was used to clone the full-length L. migratoria LmGlClalpha subunit. Finally, RT-PCR experiments demonstrated the presence of LmGluClalpha transcripts in locust DUM neurons. Our results provide the first direct evidence of a functional ivermectin-sensitive GluCl channel on the cell surface of DUM neurons of L. migratoria.	1	pesticide
17315272	Cross-resistance profile of mesosulfuron-methyl-resistant Italian ryegrass in the southern United States.	Diclofop-resistant Lolium species (ryegrass) is a major weed problem in wheat production worldwide. This study was conducted to determine the resistance pattern of diclofop-resistant ryegrass accessions from the southern United States to mesosulfuron-methyl, a recently commercialized herbicide for ryegrass control in wheat; to determine the cross-resistance pattern of a Lolium multiflorum Lam. (Italian ryegrass) accession, 03-1, to acetolactate synthase (ALS) and acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACCase) inhibitors; and to determine the resistance mechanism of Italian ryegrass to mesosulfuron-methyl. Seventeen ryegrass accessions from Arkansas and Louisiana, including standard resistant and susceptible accessions, were used in this experiment. Fourteen of the 17 accessions were more resistant (four- to > 308-fold) to diclofop than the standard susceptible biotype. One accession, 03-1, was resistant to mesosulfuron-methyl as well as to other ALS inhibitor herbicides such as chlorsulfuron, imazamox and sulfometuron. Accession 03-1, however, did not show multiple resistance to the ACCase inhibitor herbicides diclofop, fluazifop, clethodim, sethoxydim and pinoxaden, nor to glyphosate. The in vivo ALS activity of the 03-1 biotype was less affected by mesosulfuron-methyl than the susceptible biotype. This indicates that the resistance mechanism of Italian ryegrass to mesosulfuron-methyl is partly due to an alteration in the target enzyme, ALS. It is concluded that diclofop-resistant ryegrass in the southern United States can be generally controlled by mesosulfuron-methyl. However, mesosulfuron-methyl must be used with caution because not all ryegrass populations are susceptible to it. There is a need for more thorough profiling of ryegrass resistance to herbicides.	1	pesticide
17328853	Transgenic oilseed rape along transportation routes and port of Vancouver in western Canada.	The occurrence of transgenic herbicide-resistant oilseed rape (Brassica napus) in ruderal (non-crop disturbed) areas has not been investigated previously in Canada. The primary objective of this study was to document their occurrence in two main ruderal areas (along railways and roads) in the province of Saskatchewan, where half of all oilseed rape is grown, and at the port of Vancouver, British Columbia on the west coast of Canada, where most oilseed rape destined for export is transported by rail. During the 2005 growing season, leaf samples of oilseed rape plants were collected at randomly-selected sites along railways and roads across Saskatchewan ecoregions and at Vancouver; infestation area, density, and plant height of oilseed rape were measured at each site. The presence of the glyphosate and glufosinate resistance traits was determined using test strips. The infestation area of oilseed rape, averaged across 155 sampled sites in the Saskatchewan survey, was markedly smaller in populations along railways than roads; in contrast, infestation area averaged across 54 sites in the Vancouver survey was greater for populations along railways than roads. In both surveys, mean plant density was greater for populations found along railways than roads. Two-thirds of oilseed rape plants sampled across Saskatchewan ecoregions and at Vancouver were transgenic, although the relative proportion of plants with the glyphosate or glufosinate resistance trait varied between surveys. Frequency of occurrence of transgenic plants in ruderal areas was similar to the proportion of the oilseed rape area planted with transgenic cultivars in the recent preceding years. A single transgenic B. rapa x B. napus hybrid was found along a road in Vancouver, confirming the relatively high probability of hybridization between these two Brassica species. With current control measures, transgenic oilseed rape populations may persist and spread in these ruderal areas.	1	pesticide
17382951	Determination of thiophanate methyl and carbendazim residues in vegetable samples using microwave-assisted extraction.	Microwave-assisted extraction (MAE) was carried out for the determination of the fungicides thiophanate methyl [1.2-alpha-(3-methoxycarbonyl-2-thioureido)benzene] and carbendazim (methyl benzimidazol-2-ylcarbamate) in vegetable samples. Two vegetable samples, cabbage and tomatoes, were fortified with the two pesticides and subjected to MAE followed by cleanup to remove co-extractives prior to analysis by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Using the selected microwave exposure time and power setting, the recoveries of carbendazim ranged from 69 to 75%. But thiophanate methyl could not be recovered as the parent compound. It was converted and recovered as carbendazim. The conversion was quantitative as confirmed by high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS).	1	pesticide
17387716	Residual toxicity of two insecticides on three field populations of Lygus lineolaris (Hemiptera: Miridae) collected along the St Lawrence valley in eastern Canada.	Insecticides are still the single main pest control method employed today by most growers to mitigate damage done by the tarnished plant bug, Lygus lineolaris (Palisot de Beauvois) (Hemiptera: Miridae). In eastern Canada, the complex agricultural ecosystem, which may be described as a mosaic of farmlands dispersed among natural habitats (forest, prairies), allows tarnished plant bug adults to fly and move from sprayed to non-sprayed areas. In 2004 (late August to early September), three populations of L. lineolaris were collected from three mixed vegetation strips adjacent to orchards and vineyards along the St Lawrence valley: the Niagara Peninsula (Ontario), Dunham (Quebec) and La Pocatière (Quebec). Assays were done in the laboratory by confining adults in glass vials coated with dried residues. The estimated LC(50) values for the three populations varied from 11.2 to 16.8 x 10(-5) g L(-1) for azinphos-methyl and from 0.8 to 1.4 x 10(-5) g L(-1) for cypermethrin. In contrast to the Mississippi delta, no tolerance to insecticides was found in the populations collected. Possible explanations for this non-tolerance to insecticides includes a very low selection pressure as a result of the reduced number of insecticide treatments done in the context of the diversified agricultural landscapes encountered in eastern Canada which allow movements of adults from treated to non-treated areas.	1	pesticide
17406996	Status of insecticide contamination of soil and water in Haryana, India.	Twelve samples each of soil and ground water were collected from paddy-wheat, paddy-cotton, sugarcane fields and tube wells from same or near by fields around Hisar, Haryana, India during 2002-2003 to monitor pesticide residues. Residues were estimated by GC-ECD and GC-NPD systems equipped with capillary columns for organochlorine, synthetic pyrethroid and organophosphate insecticides. In soil, HCH (0.002-0.051 microg g(-1)), DDT (0.001-0.066 microg g(-1)), endosulfan (0.002-0.039 microg g(-1)) and chlordane (0.0002-0.019 microg g(-1)) among organochlorines, cypermethrin (0.001-0.035 microg g(-1)) and fenvalerate (0.001-0.022 microg g(-1)) among synthetic pyrethroids and chlorpyriphos (0.002-0.172 microg g(-1)), malathion (0.002-0.008 microg g(-1)), quinalphos (0.001-0.010 microg g(-1)) among organophosphates were detected. Dominant contaminants were DDT, cypermethrin and chlorpyriphos from the respective groups. In water samples, HCH, DDT, endosulfan and cypermethrin residues were observed frequently. Only chlorpyriphos among organophosphates was detected in 10 samples. On consideration of tube well water for drinking purpose, about 80% samples were found to contain residues above the regulatory limits.	1	pesticide
17420035	Impact of cypermethrin on stream fish populations under field-use in biotech-soybean production.	"The impact of biotech-soybean technology on freshwater ecosystems is being evaluated in the Rolling Pampas region, Argentina. The effect of cypermethrin, the main soybean insecticide, on low-order temperate-stream fish populations was investigated for two consecutive crop cycles under field-use conditions in biotech-soybean production. Cypermethrin was unable to induce mortality or behavioral effects on any of the fish species resident in a first-order stream across a crop field (pulsed acute exposure scenario) sprayed according to conventional practices. No spatially or temporally dependent effects were observed on population parameters (size-class structure, abundance, survival, sex and immature/mature ratio, condition factor) of resident or caged Cnesterodon decemmaculatus after spraying or rainfall events, not even one year after, at the beginning of the next crop cycle. Although cypermethrin was ""very highly toxic"" to C. decemmaculatus in laboratory water (96h-LC(50)=0.43microg/l), its toxicity was reduced in filtered (78%) and unfiltered (92%) stream water. Changes in LC(50) values were mainly correlated with the OC content of each water fraction (r(2)=0.99; p<0.01; n=9), showing that both DOC and TOC contributed proportionally to toxicity reduction. Protective effects of stream water (12-fold reduction LC(50) values) explained the lack of effects on fish populations in the field, despite cypermethrin water concentrations after spraying reached values comparable with the 96h-LC(50). Therefore, cypermethrin under field-use conditions in transgenic-soybean production represents a low risk of acute exposure for fish populations inhabiting low-order temperate-streams rich in TOC. The relationship between LC(50) and TOC could be a convenient way to improve risk estimation based on laboratory toxicity testing."	1	pesticide
17443714	Atrazine and reproductive function: mode and mechanism of action studies.	Atrazine, a chlorotriazine herbicide, is used to control annual grasses and broadleaf weeds. In this review, we summarize our laboratory's work evaluating the neuroendocrine toxicity of atrazine (and related chlorotriazines) from an historic perspective. We provide the rationale for our work as we have endeavored to determine: 1) the underlying reproductive changes leading to the development of mammary gland tumors in the atrazine-exposed female rat; 2) the cascade of physiological events that are responsible for these changes (i.e., the mode of action for mammary tumors); 3) the potential cellular mechanisms involving adverse effects of atrazine; and 4) the range of reproductive alterations associated with this pesticide.	1	pesticide
17456084	Apparent effects of glyphosate on alkaloid production in coca plants grown in Colombia.	During the routine analysis of coca leaf material from South America, alkaloids in Erythroxylum coca var. ipadu (ECVI) leaf samples from fields suspected of being treated with glyphosate were compared with those from non-treated E. coca var. ipadu and Erythroxylum novogranatense var. novogranatense (ENVN) plants. Cocaine levels in leaf tissue from non-treated ECVI and ENVN were 0.53+/-0.08% and 0.64+/-0.08% (w/w), respectively, whereas leaves from treated plants were nearly devoid of cocaine. Further analysis demonstrated the presence of several previously undescribed N-nortropane alkaloids, several of which were tentatively identified. The results suggest that applications of glyphosate to coca plants can have dramatic effects on the quantity and quality of alkaloids produced by surviving or subsequent leaves. The analytical data presented will be of value to forensic chemists who encounter illicit cocaine preparations containing alkaloids produced from coca plants treated with glyphosate.	1	pesticide
17474521	Determination of pesticide residues in foods by acetonitrile extraction and partitioning with magnesium sulfate: collaborative study.	A collaborative study was conducted to determine multiple pesticide residues in fruits and vegetables using a quick, simple, inexpensive, and effective sample preparation method followed by concurrent analysis with gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) and liquid chromatography/ tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS). For short, the method is known as QuEChERS, which stands for quick, easy, cheap, effective, rugged, and safe. Twenty representative pesticides were fortified in 3 matrixes (grapes, lettuces, and oranges) at 3 duplicate levels unknown to the collaborators ranging from 10 to 1000 ng/g. Additionally, 8 incurred pesticide residues were determined. Thirteen laboratories from 7 countries provided results in the study, and a variety of different instruments were used by collaborators. The QuEChERS procedure simply entails 3 main steps: (1) a 15 g homogenized sample is weighed into a 50 mL centrifuge tube to which 15 mL acetonitrile containing 1% HOAc is added along with 6 g MgSO4 and 1.5 g NaOAc, and the tube is shaken and centrifuged; (2) a portion of the extract is mixed with 3 + 1 (w/w) MgSO4-primary secondary amine sorbent (200 mg/mL extract) and centrifuged; and (3) the final extract is analyzed by GC/MS and LC/MS/MS. To detect residues <10 ng/g in GC/MS, large-volume injection of 8 microL is typically needed, or the extract can be concentrated to 4 g/mL in toluene, in which case 2 microL splitless injection is used. In the study, the averaged results for data from 7-13 laboratories (not using internal standardization) for the 18 blind duplicates at the 9 spiking levels in the 3 matrixes are as follows [%recovery and reproducibility relative standard deviation (RSD(R), %)]: atrazine, 92 (18); azoxystrobin, 93 (15); bifenthrin, 90 (16); carbaryl, 96 (20); chlorothalonil, 70 (34); chlorpyrifos, 89 (25); cyprodinil, 89 (19); o,p'-DDD, 89 (18); dichlorvos, 82 (21); endosulfan sulfate, 80 (27); imazalil, 77 (33); imidacloprid, 96 (16); linuron, 89 (19); methamidophos, 87 (17); methomyl, 96 (17); procymidone, 91 (20); pymetrozine, 69 (19); tebuconazole, 89 (15); tolylfluanid (in grapes and oranges), 68 (33); and trifluralin, 85 (20). For incurred pesticides, kresoxim-methyl (9.2 +/- 3.2 ng/g) and cyprodinil (112 +/- 18) were found in the grapes; permethrins (112 +/- 41), lamda-cyhalothrin (58 +/- 11), and imidacloprid (12 +/- 2) were determined in the lettuces; and ethion (198 +/- 36), thiabendazole (53 +/- 8), and imazalil (13 +/- 4) were determined in the oranges. Chlorpyrifosmethyl (200 ng/g) was used as a quality control standard added during sample homogenization and yielded 86% recovery and 19% RSD(R). Intralaboratory repeatabilities for the method averaged 9.8% RSD for all analytes. The results demonstrate that the method is fit-for-purpose to monitor many pesticide residues in fruits and vegetables, and the Study Director recommends that it be adopted Official First Action.	1	pesticide
17487602	Safe apples for baby-food production: survey of pesticide treatment regimes leaving minimum residues.	A total of 19 pesticide preparations were used according to agricultural practice in six trials in apple orchards. Using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), premature Golden Delicious apples collected 64, 50, 36 days before harvest and mature fruit were examined for residues of active ingredients. No residues of triflumuron, triazamate, chlorpyrifos, etofenprox, fenoxycarb, kresoxim-methyl, cyprodinyl, difenoconazole or thiram were detected in the first sampling. Also, the levels of chlorpyrifos-methyl, penconazole, tebuconazole and tolylfluanid dropped during the pre-harvest interval. Detectable residues of pyridaben, thiacloprid, trifloxystrobin and tetraconazole in harvested fruits were below 0.01 mg kg(-1), which is the maximum concentration of residues acceptable by baby-food producers in any raw material. The only residues exceeding this concentration were captan and teflubenzuron. Based on the data, farmers can choose pesticides for optimal treatment of plants, while enabling growth of a safe crop suitable for baby-food production.	1	pesticide
17523144	Toxicity of insecticides to the sweetpotato whitefly (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae) and its natural enemies.	Efficient chemical control is achieved when insecticides are active against insect pests and safe to natural enemies. In this study, the toxicity of 17 insecticides to the sweetpotato whitefly, Bemisia tabaci (Gennadius), and the selectivity of seven insecticides to natural enemies of this insect pest were evaluated. To determine the insecticide toxicity, B. tabaci adults were exposed to abamectin, acephate, acetamiprid, cartap, imidacloprid, malathion, methamidophos, bifenthrin, cypermethrin, deltamethrin, esfenvalerate, fenitrothion, fenpropathrin, fenthion, phenthoate, permethrin and trichlorphon at 50 and 100% of the field rate (FR), and to water (untreated control). To determine the insecticide selectivity, adults of Encarsia sp., Acanthinus sp., Discodon sp. and Lasiochilus sp. were exposed to abamectin, acephate, acetamiprid, cartap, imidacloprid, malathion and methamidophos at 50 and 100% FR, and to water. Groups of each insect species were exposed to kale leaves preimmersed in each treatment under laboratory conditions. Mortality of exposed individuals was recorded 24 h after treatment. Cartap and imidacloprid at 50 and 100% FR and abamectin and acetamiprid at 100% FR showed insecticidal activity to B. tabaci adults. Abamectin at 50 and 100% FR was the least insecticidal compound to the natural enemies Acanthinus sp., Discodon sp. and Lasiochilus sp. The present results suggest that abamectin at 100% FR may decrease B. tabaci field populations but can still be harmless to predators. Implications of these results within an integrated pest management context are discussed.	1	pesticide
17526879	Occurrence and bioavailability of pyrethroids in a mixed land use watershed.	The shift in land use patterns within many urban areas has the potential to influence the magnitude and nature of nonpoint-source pollution. The presence of pyrethroid insecticides in urban surface streams is of particular concern due to the broad spectrum toxicity of pyrethroids to aquatic organisms and the widespread use of pyrethroid products for agricultural and urban pest control. Sediment samples were collected throughout a mixed land use watershed in southern California during two sampling periods and analyzed for a suite of pyrethroids. Bifenthrin and fenpropathrin were found most frequently in the sediment samples, with the highest concentrations associated with sites adjacent to large commercial nurseries. Sediments from residential areas or residential-commercial mixed areas had fewer detections and significantly lower concentrations than the nursery runoff sediments. No apparent difference was found between wet and dry season concentrations, which may be attributed to the fact that the lack of flow under dry weather conditions rendered pyrethroid residues immobile. Organic carbon-normalized sediment concentrations were poorly correlated with the freely dissolved pore water concentrations measured by solid phase microextraction (SPME), suggesting factors other than sediment organic carbon content should be considered when relating concentrations to potential toxicities.	1	pesticide
17557843	Putative porin of Bradyrhizobium sp. (Lupinus) bacteroids induced by glyphosate.	Application of glyphosate (N-[phosphonomethyl] glycine) to Bradyrhizobium sp. (Lupinus)-nodulated lupin plants caused modifications in the protein pattern of bacteroids. The most significant change was the presence of a 44-kDa polypeptide in bacteroids from plants treated with the higher doses of glyphosate employed (5 and 10 mM). The polypeptide has been characterized by the amino acid sequencing of its N terminus and the isolation and nucleic acid sequencing of its encoding gene. It is putatively encoded by a single gene, and the protein has been identified as a putative porin. Protein modeling revealed the existence of several domains sharing similarity to different porins, such as a transmembrane beta-barrel. The protein has been designated BLpp, for Bradyrhizobium sp. (Lupinus) putative porin, and would be the first porin described in Bradyrhizobium sp. (Lupinus). In addition, a putative conserved domain of porins has been identified which consists of 87 amino acids, located in the BLpp sequence 30 amino acids downstream of the N-terminal region. In bacteroids, mRNA of the BLpp gene shows a basal constitutive expression that increases under glyphosate treatment, and the expression of the gene is seemingly regulated at the transcriptional level. By contrast, in free-living bacteria glyphosate treatment leads to an inhibition of BLpp mRNA accumulation, indicating a different effect of glyphosate on BLpp gene expression in bacteroids and free-living bacteria. The possible role of BLpp in a metabolite interchange between Bradyrhizobium and lupin is discussed.	1	pesticide
17561946	Detection and organization of atrazine-degrading genetic potential of seventeen bacterial isolates belonging to divergent taxa indicate a recent common origin of their catabolic functions.	A collection of 17 atrazine-degrading bacteria isolated from soils was studied to determine the composition of the atrazine-degrading genetic potential (i.e. trzN, trzD and atz) and the presence of IS1071. The characterization of seven new atrazine-degrading bacteria revealed for the first time the trzN-atzBC gene composition in Gram-negative bacteria such as Sinorhizobium sp. or Polaromonas sp. Three main atrazine-degrading gene combinations (i) trzN-atzBC, (ii) atzABC-trzD and (iii) atzABCDEF were observed. The atz and trz genes were often located on plasmids, suggesting that plasmid conjugation could play an important role in their dispersion. In addition, the observation of these genes (i) on the chromosome, (ii) on the same DNA fragment but on different plasmids and (iii) on DNA fragments also hybridizing with IS1071 suggests that transposition may also contribute to disperse the atrazine-degrading genes.	1	pesticide
17562455	Validation of an efficient method for the determination of pesticide residues in fruits and vegetables using ethyl acetate for extraction.	"In this study, a version of the ""quick, easy, cheap, effective, rugged, and safe"" (QuEChERS) method was modified to use ethyl acetate (EtOAc) rather than acetonitrile (MeCN) for extraction in the determination of multiple pesticide residues in fruits and vegetables. EtOAc is better suited than MeCN for gas chromatographic (GC) analysis with electron capture detection (ECD) and nitrogen-phosphorus detection (NPD). The method entailed extraction of 30 g chopped sample plus 5 g NaHCO(3) and 30 g anhydrous Na(2)SO(4) with 60 mL EtOAc using a probe blender. After a centrifugation step, removal of residual water and cleanup were performed using dispersive solid-phase extraction (dispersive-SPE) with MgSO(4) and primary secondary amine (PSA) sorbent. (14)C-labeled chlorpyrifos with liquid scintillation counting was used to assist in optimizing and characterizing the method, and GC-ECD and GC-NPD were used for analysis of 24 selected pesticides. The method was validated using tomato, apple and frozen green bean matrices spiked at 0.05, 0.5, and 5 mg/kg. For 22 of the analytes, recoveries averaged 93% for all three commodities over the validation range with a relative standard deviation of 10% (n = 1182). Lower recoveries of dichlorvos were obtained with the method and iprodione determination was compromised in the green beans by an interfering peak. Typical limits of detection were 0.005-0.01 mg/kg with the method."	1	pesticide
17592614	CEC enantioseparations on chiral monolithic columns: a study of the stereoselective degradation of (R/S)-dichlorprop [2-(2,4-dichlorophenoxy)propionic acid] in soil.	For the study of the stereoselective degradation of the herbicide 2-aryloxipropionic acid dichlorprop (DCPP) in soil, a porous monolithic chiral column (100 microm id) was prepared by in situ copolymerization of glycidyl methacrylate, methyl methacrylate and ethylene glycol dimethacrylate in the presence of formamide and 1-propanol as the porogen solvents. Subsequently, the epoxide groups at the surface of the monolith were reacted with (+)-1-(4-aminobutyl)-(5R,8S,10R)-terguride as the chiral selector. Optimum conditions for the herbicide resolution by CEC were found using mobile phases consisting of acetic acid/triethylamine mixtures in ACN-methanol (9:1 v/v). Under these conditions fully separation of DCPP enantiomers in the presence of clofibric acid (internal standard) was achieved in about 5 min. Experiments on the incubation of rac-DCPP in soil at room temperature showed the herbicide undergone during 23 incubation days to a degradation to levels </=20% of the initial concentration, with rates for (R)-DCPP slower than (S)-DCPP. More interesting results were observed when herbicide enantiomers were individually incubated. In both the experiments, the formation of the opposite isomer in the presence of the initial one, and reversed enantiomeric interconversion in the case of (S)-DCPP was observed. (R)-DCPP was found to be the most persistent isomer after incubation.	1	pesticide
17598296	Field evaluation of different insecticide use strategies as resistance management and control tactics for Bemisia tabaci (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae).	Various insecticide use strategies including rotations, sequential use, and mixtures were evaluated experimentally on Bemisia tabaci (Gennadius) in California and Arizona (U.S.A.) cotton fields. Toxicological responses of adult B. tabaci were measured along with preimaginal densities and cotton yields from plots subjected to different insecticide regimens. Weekly monitoring for susceptibility changes over ten consecutive weeks in four different trials failed to detect significant differences between sequential use and rotation regimens, nor in comparison to the control plots. There were, however, significant differences among study-site locations and between study years as well as significant within-season time effects. Relative infestations in insecticide-treated plots expressed as a percentage of preimaginal densities in control plots indicated that better control was obtained by all insecticide treatments in conjunction with higher susceptibility levels observed in the second year. Lower preimaginal densities of B. tabaci were measured in the rotation treatment in comparison to sequential treatments of endosulfan, chlorpyrifos, or amitraz, but all were less effective than sequential treatments of bifenthrin or the mixture of bifenthrin + endosulfan. Cotton lint yields were inversely related to B. tabaci densities, with highest yields in the bifenthrin and mixture plots and lowest yields in the control plots. Suppression of B. tabaci infestations in insecticide-treated plots relative to untreated control plots also improved under conditions of lower B. tabaci pressure. The increases in cotton yield and susceptibility to insecticides seen in the current study support the trend observed in the southwestern USA of improved management of B. tabaci despite continuing intensive use of insecticides.	1	pesticide
17612156	Residues of persistent organochlorine contaminants in southern elephant seals (Mirounga leonina) from Elephant Island, Antarctica.	Contamination of blubber tissues by organochlorine pesticides (OC) and PCBs was assessed in female and male pups and juveniles, as well as in adult females and subdominant adult males of the Southern elephant seal, Mirounga leonina, from Elephant Island in the Antarctic Peninsula. All residues of persistent organochlorine contaminants analyzed were found in blubber samples, except for beta-HCH, endosulfan II, endrin, heptachlor, and aldrin. The relative concentrations of the analytes detected were sigmaDDT > sigmaPCB > sigmachlordane > mirex > dieldrin > HCB> sigmaendosulfan > methoxychlor > sigmaHCHs > other OC pesticides. OC and PCBs concentrations were 1 or 2 orders of magnitude lower than those found in pinnipeds from northern hemisphere. The ratio sigmaDDT/sigmaPCB was higher in southern elephant seals. The relative importance of some OC residues indicates that pesticides used either currently or in the recent past in countries in the southern hemisphere are the sources of contamination in the Antarctic region. Data showed that concentrations of contaminants generally increased from pups < juveniles < adults and suggested that pups accumulated contaminants through transfer from the mother seals via transplacental and lactational routes.	1	pesticide
17612555	Oil-in-water nanoemulsions for pesticide formulations.	A two-step process for formation of nanoemulsions in the system water/poly(oxyethylene) nonionic surfactant/methyl decanoate at 25 degrees C is described. First, all the components were mixed at a certain composition to prepare a microemulsion concentrate, which was rapidly subjected into a large dilution into water to generate an emulsion. Bluish transparent oil-in-water (O/W) nanoemulsions were formed only when the concentrate was located in the bicontinuous microemulsion (BC) or oil-in-water microemulsion (Wm) region. The existence of an optimum oil-to-surfactant ratio (R(os)) in the BC or Wm region indicates that both the phase behavior and the composition of the concentrate are important factors in nanoemulsion formation. To demonstrate potential applications of these systems, they were employed to formulate a water-insoluble pesticide, beta-cypermethrin (beta-CP). The nanoemulsion was compared with a commercial beta-CP microemulsion in terms of the stability of sprayed formulations.	1	pesticide
17626722	Determination of benomyl residues in shiitake mushrooms (Lentinula edodes) by liquid chromatography with UV detection.	A method is optimized to determine benomyl (as carbendazim derivative) in shiitake mushrooms. It is based on the extraction of the fungicide with an ethyl acetate-hexane mixture and a further analysis of the extract by high-performance liquid chromatography-UV. Mean recoveries are evaluated and range from 76% to 86% with relative standard deviation between 1.1% and 5.8%. The limit of quantitation (0.5 mg/Kg) is lower than the maximum residue level established by European legislation. The method is successfully applied to the analysis of shiitake mushrooms cultivated on eucalyptus logs treated with Benlate 500 (benomyl as active ingredient) under natural environmental conditions.	1	pesticide
17628715	Combination of a pesticide exposure and a bacterial challenge: in vivo effects on immune response of Pacific oyster, Crassostrea gigas (Thunberg).	To assess the impact of pollution induced by pesticides on Pacific oyster, Crassostrea gigas, health in France, in vivo effects of combined pesticide exposure and bacterial challenge on cell activities and gene expression in hemocytes were tested using flow cytometry and real-time PCR. As a first step, an in vivo model of experimental contamination was developed. Pacific oysters were exposed to a mixture of eight pesticides (atrazine, glyphosate, alachlor, metolachlor, fosetyl-alumimium, terbuthylazine, diuron and carbaryl) at environmentally relevant concentrations over a 7-day period. Hemocyte parameters (cell mortality, enzyme activities and phagocytosis) were monitored using flow cytometry and gene expression was evaluated by real-time PCR (RT-PCR). The expression of 19 genes involved in C. gigas hemocyte functions was characterized using RT-PCR. After 7 days of exposure, phagocytosis was significantly reduced and the 19 selected genes were down-regulated in treated animals. As a second step, the experimental contamination method previously developed was used to study interactions between pesticide exposure and bacterial challenge by intramuscular injection of two Vibrio splendidus-related pathogenic strains. Oyster mortality and expression of 10 of the 19 selected genes were followed 4 and 24h post-injection. Oyster mortality was higher in pesticide-treated oysters compared to untreated oysters after the bacterial challenge. Gene expression was up-regulated in pesticide-treated oysters compared to untreated oysters after the bacterial challenge. We hypothesize that gene over-expression due to an interaction between pesticides and bacteria could lead to an injury of host tissues, resulting in higher mortality rates. In conclusion, this study is the first to show effects of pesticides at environmentally relevant concentrations on C. gigas hemocytes and to hypothesize that pesticides modulate the immune response to a bacterial challenge in oysters.	1	pesticide
17636291	Summer cover crops reduce atrazine leaching to shallow groundwater in southern Florida.	At Florida's southeastern tip, sweet corn (Zea Mays) is grown commercially during winter months. Most fields are treated with atrazine (6-chloro-N-ethyl-N'-[1-methylethyl]-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine). Hydrogeologic conditions indicate a potential for shallow groundwater contamination. This was investigated by measuring the parent compound and three degradates--DEA (6-chloro-N-[1-methylethyl]-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine), DIA (6-chloro-N-ethyl)-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine, and HA (6-hydroxy-N-[1-methylethyl]-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine)--in water samples collected beneath sweet corn plots treated annually with the herbicide. During the study, a potential mitigation measure (i.e., the use of a cover crop, Sunn Hemp [Crotalaria juncea L.], during summer fallow periods followed by chopping and turning the crop into soil before planting the next crop) was evaluated. Over 3.5 yr and production of four corn crops, groundwater monitoring indicated leaching of atrazine, DIA, and DEA, with DEA accounting for more than half of all residues in most samples. Predominance of DEA, which increased after the second atrazine application, was interpreted as an indication of rapid and extensive atrazine degradation in soil and indicated that an adapted community of atrazine degrading organisms had developed. A companion laboratory study found a sixfold increase in atrazine degradation rate in soil after three applications. Groundwater data also revealed that atrazine and degradates concentrations were significantly lower in samples collected beneath cover crop plots when compared with concentrations below fallow plots. Together, these findings demonstrated a relatively small although potentially significant risk for leaching of atrazine and its dealkylated degradates to groundwater and that the use of a cover crop like Sunn Hemp during summer months may be an effective mitigation measure.	1	pesticide
17647002	Effectiveness of lotions based on essential oils from aromatic plants against permethrin resistant Pediculus humanus capitis.	In Argentina, field populations of the head louse Pediculus humanus capitis De Geer (Phthiraptera: Pediculidae) have developed resistance to permethrin and other pyrethroids. Thus, the aim of this work was the development of a lotion containing essential oils from plants and an alcoholic coadjuvant to improve biological effect. Ethanol + isopropanol (1 + 1 in volume) 50% in water and ethanol 96% were taken as bases for preparation of experimental lotions containing essential oils from plants. We found that experimental lotions containing lavender, peppermint and eucalyptus oils in a 5% composition and the combination of eucalyptus and peppermint in a total concentration of 10%, dissolved in 50% ethanol + isopropanol (1 + 1) in water, showed the best knockdown effect. On the other side, lotion containing peppermint oil and eucalyptus oil (1 + 1) 10%, dissolved in ethanol 96%, showed to be as effective as the best commercial lotion now available in Argentina. Furthermore, addition of 1-dodecanol in all cases increased the effectiveness of all the experimental lotions. This difference is significantly important for 1-dodecanol concentration of 10%, reaching a toxic activity compared to the best commercial lotion available in the market.	1	pesticide
17651308	Trifluralin toxicity in a Chagas disease mouse model.	Even though trifluralin (alpha,alpha,alpha-2,6-dinitro-N-N-dipropyl-p-toluidine) is effective for the treatment of experimental Chagas disease, more preclinical toxicity studies need to be performed. Cell toxicity of trifluralin was studied in Hep-G2 and Vero C76 cells treated with 50 and 150 microM trifluralin. The results show that duplication time, amount of cellular protein and cell protein/DNA values were normal. Histological, haematological and chemical parameters were measured in CF1 mice after oral trifluralin administration. Acute toxic effects were assayed by administration of 50 or 200 mg/kg body weight daily for 30 days, and chronic effects by administration of 200 mg/kg body weight once a week for 90 days (n = 20). In the acute scheme treatment, hepatic (glutamic-pyruvic, glutamic-oxalacetic and alkaline phosphatase activities; proteins and albumin plasma concentrations) and pancreatic (amylase, glycaemia) functions were normal. Mean corpuscular volume, haemoglobin and haematocrit decreased. Creatine phosphokinase, lactate dehydrogenase and glutamic-oxalacetic activity increased, suggesting lesion in myocardial tissue. Histology was normal, excepting for the heart (mild myocarditis). Similar results were observed in acutely treated animals. There were no differences in body weight gain for treated mice compared to controls. In view of the published therapeutic effects of trifluralin on CF1 Chagas disease model and considering the present results, trifluralin seems to be a moderately toxic drug with a potential selective effect on the myocardium.	1	pesticide
17654957	Extraction of chlorpyrifos and malathion from water by metal nanoparticles.	The nanoparticles of gold and silver in solution state and supported over activated alumina are effective systems for the quantitative removal of chlorpyrifos and malathion, two common pesticides found in surface waters of developing nations, from water. In the solution phase, these pesticides adsorb onto the nanoparticles' surfaces and upon interaction for a long time, the nanoparticles with adsorbed pesticides precipitate. In contrast, complete removal of these pesticides occurs when contaminated water is passed over nanoparticles supported on alumina. A prototype of an on-line filter was made using a column of activated alumina powder loaded with silver nanoparticles and the device was used for pesticide removal for extended periods. We believe that the method has great technological potential in drinking water purification, especially using silver nanoparticles.	1	pesticide
17655126	[Studies on preparation of CdS/TiO2/float pearls coupled photocatalyst and degradation of beta-cypermethrin].	The coupled photocatalyst of CdS/TiO2/float pearls was prepared by sol-gel-dipping method, and its structure characterization was carried out with SEM and XRD analysis. As a model reaction, the photocatalytic degradation of beta-cypermethrin (BEC) was investigated in CdS/TiO2/float pearls powder suspension irradiated by different light sources. The effects of influence factors on the photocatalytic activity were discussed for the prepared photocatalyst. The results showed that under the following conditions: amount of photocatalyst 3000 mg x L(-1), initial concentration of BEC 45 mg x L(-1), initial pH 6. 5, and air flow rate 200 mL x min(-1), the degradation rate of BEC reached 87.9% (125 W Hg lamp in 1 hour), 79.3% (5 W UV lamp in 1 hour) and 93.4% (solar light in 5 hours), respectively. The photocatalytic degradation of BEC was experimentally demonstrated to follow the Langmuir-Hinshelwood kinetic model, and the reaction rate constant (9.80 mg x (L x min)(-1)) and the adsorption constant (4.36 x 10(-3) L x mg(-1)) were determined, respectively.	1	pesticide
17657829	p-Nitro-N-propylaniline/silica: synthesis, characterization, and its application in matrix solid phase dispersion for multiresidue analysis of pesticides in carrots.	A new material for matrix solid phase dispersion (MSPD) was synthesized -- p-nitro-N-propylaniline/silica (pNNPASi) by grafting reactions, characterized by elemental analysis and N(2)-adsorption-desorption isotherms, and tested for multiclass multiresidue analysis of pesticides in wet and freeze-dried carrots. Results obtained applying this new solid phase sorbent to MSPD extraction of ten pesticides (trichlorphon, trifluralin, dicloran, chlorothalonil, prometryn, linuron, captan, procymidone, prochloraz, and deltametrin) in wet carrots showed better results than the ones obtained for freeze-dried samples. Recoveries were in the range of 48-106% and precisions varied from 6 to 20% when wet samples were employed. Comparison between pNNPASi sorbent and C(18) showed better performance of pNNPASi for eight out of ten pesticides tested. The LOQs show that the developed method can be used to detect the pesticides investigated in carrots at concentrations below the maximum residue levels (MRL) established by EU, USEPA, and National Sanitary Surveillance Agency (ANVISA). Linuron, captan, prochloraz, and deltamethrin were found in at least one of the two commercial samples studied in concentrations above the LOQ of this method. Concentrations of the last three pesticides were above the European MRL in one of the commercial samples.	1	pesticide
17674127	Toxicity and efficacy of selected pesticides and new acaricides to stored product mites (Acari: Acaridida).	Stored product mites can often infest stored products, but currently there is little information regarding the efficacy of pesticides that can be used for control. In this study we evaluated several common pesticides formulated from single active ingredients (a.i.) or commercially available mixtures (chlorpyrifos, deltamethrin, beta-cyfluthrin, and a combination of deltamethrin and S-bioallethrin), plus an acaricide composed of permethrin, pyriproxyfen and benzyl benzolate, for efficacy against Acarus siro, Tyrophagus putrescentiae, and Aleuroglyphus ovatus. The pesticides were incorporated into the mite diets in a dose range of 10-1000 microg a.i. g(-1) diet. Concentrations for suppression of 50 and 90% population growth and eradication (rC0) of mites were fit to linear regression models. None of the tested pesticides gave complete eradication of A. siro, which was the most tolerant of the three mite species tested. The most effective pesticide Allergoff 175 CS was a combination product (a nano-capsule suspension of permethrin, pyriproxyfen and benzyl benzolate) labeled for dust mites, with rC0 range of 463-2453 microg a.i. (permethrin) g(-1) diet depending on the species. Least effective were chlorpyrifos and deltamethrin.	1	pesticide
17681413	Organophosphorus pesticides induce apoptosis in human NK cells.	We found previously that organophosphorus pesticides (OPs) significantly inhibited natural killer (NK) activity. To explore the mechanism of OP-induced inhibition of NK activity, we investigated whether OPs can induce apoptosis in NK cells in the present study. We used NK-92CI and NK-92MI cells, which are interleukin-2 independent human NK cell lines. NK-92CI and/or NK-92MI were treated with dichlorvos (DDVP) or chlorpyrifos (CP) at 0-100 ppm for 1-72 h at 37 degrees C in vitro. Apoptosis induced by DDVP and CP was determined by FITC-Annexin V staining and the intracellular level of active caspase-3 was analysed by flow cytometry. We found that DDVP and CP significantly induced apoptosis in NK-92CI and NK-92MI cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner. DDVP also induced an increase of intracellular active caspase-3 in NK-92CI in a dose- and time-dependent manner, and a caspase-3 inhibitor, Z-DEVD-FMK, significantly inhibited DDVP-induced apoptosis, suggesting that this apoptosis is partially mediated by activation of intracellular caspase-3. The pattern of apoptosis induced by CP differed from that induced by DDVP. CP showed a faster response than DDVP at higher doses; whereas, DDVP showed a slower, but stronger apoptosis-inducing ability than CP at lower doses. Moreover, the response to OPs differed between NK-92CI and NK-92MI cells, and NK-92CI was more sensitive to OPs than NK-92MI. This is similar to the inhibition of NK activity induced by DDVP, in which NK-92CI was more easily inhibited by DDVP than NK-92MI. Taken together, these findings suggest that OP-induced inhibition of NK activity may be at least partially mediated by OP-induced apoptosis in NK.	1	pesticide
17701700	Adsorption behavior of alpha -cypermethrin on cork and activated carbon.	Studies were undertaken to determine the adsorption behavior of alpha -cypermethrin [R)-alpha -cyano-3-phenoxybenzyl(1S)-cis-3-(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate, and (S)-alpha-cyano-3-phenoxybenzyl (1R)-cis-3-(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate] in solutions on granules of cork and activated carbon (GAC). The adsorption studies were carried out using a batch equilibrium technique. A gas chromatograph with an electron capture detector (GC-ECD) was used to analyze alpha -cypermethrin after solid phase extraction with C18 disks. Physical properties including real density, pore volume, surface area and pore diameter of cork were evaluated by mercury porosimetry. Characterization of cork particles showed variations thereby indicating the highly heterogeneous structure of the material. The average surface area of cork particles was lower than that of GAC. Kinetics adsorption studies allowed the determination of the equilibrium time - 24 hours for both cork (1-2 mm and 3-4 mm) and GAC. For the studied alpha -cypermethrin concentration range, GAC revealed to be a better sorbent. However, adsorption parameters for equilibrium concentrations, obtained through the Langmuir and Freundlich models, showed that granulated cork 1-2 mm have the maximum amount of adsorbed alpha-cypermethrin (q(m)) (303 microg/g); followed by GAC (186 microg/g) and cork 3-4 mm (136 microg/g). The standard deviation (SD) values, demonstrate that Freundlich model better describes the alpha -cypermethrin adsorption phenomena on GAC, while alpha -cypermethrin adsorption on cork (1-2 mm and 3-4 mm) is better described by the Langmuir. In view of the adsorption results obtained in this study it appears that granulated cork may be a better and a cheaper alternative to GAC for removing alpha -cypermethrin from water.	1	pesticide
17723703	Microwave-assisted extraction through an aqueous medium and simultaneous cleanup by partition on hexane for determining pesticides in agricultural soils by gas chromatography: a critical study.	A simple microwave-assisted extraction and partitioning method (MAEP) using water-acetonitrile and n-hexane for desorption and simultaneous partitioning, respectively, together with gas chromatography (GC) was studied to determine representative pesticides (trifluralin, metolachlor, chlorpyriphos and triadimefon) with a broad range of physico-chemical properties in agricultural soils. Three points were considered crucial in this study: instrumental and sample-associated factors affecting extraction of the target compounds were studied through experimental design; the spiking procedure at trace levels was carried out to reproduce the solute-soil sorption taking place in the environment as closely as possible; and results were analyzed taking into account the adsorption behaviour of the compounds on different kinds of soils. The complete analytical procedure proposed consisted of the MAEP of pesticides from 1.0 g of soil with 1 mL of 1:1 water/acetonitrile mixture, and 5 mL of hexane for trapping. The microwave heating program applied was 2 min at 250 W and 10 min at 900 W, and 130 degrees C maximum temperature. After extraction, the hexane layer was evaporated to dryness; the residue was re-dissolved and directly analyzed by gas chromatography electron capture detection (GC-ECD). Clean chromatograms were obtained without any additional cleanup step. Besides the four pesticides used to optimise MAEP, the method was applied to determine an additional group of pesticides (triallate, acetochlor, alachlor, endosulphan I and II, endrin, methoxychlor and tetradifon) in different soils. Most of the compounds studied were recovered in good yields with relative standard deviations (R.S.D.s) below 9% and detection limits ranged from 0.004 to 0.036 microg g(-1). The described method is efficient and fast to determine hydrophobic pesticides at ng g(-1) level in soil with different clay-to-organic matter ratios.	1	pesticide
17723731	Montmorillonite as an adsorbent for extraction and concentration of atrazine, propazine, deethylatrazine, deisopropylatrazine and hydroxyatrazine.	Adsorption properties of the clay mineral montmorillonite in the potassium homoionic form (KMT) was investigated to achieve the extraction and concentration of the herbicides atrazine (AT) and propazine (PROP), as well as the main degradation products of atrazine, namely deethylatrazine (DEA), deisopropylatrazine (DIA) and hydroxyatrazine (ATOH). A batch approach was proposed, with recovery percentages for AT, PROP and DIA higher than 90% at concentrations of 0.50 and 2.50 microg L(-1). For DEA and ATOH, however, low recoveries were obtained. For DEA, this fact can be explained by its low K(d) with KMT, contrary to ATOH, which interacts strongly with the mineral surface, hindering the complete desorption and hence, generating low recovery percentages. The influence of pH, ionic strength and humic acid was studied, and a comparison with the C(18) phase as SPE cartridges was carried out. Montmorillonite showed a similar performance to commercial cartridge for concentrations of AT, DEA and PROP, but better recoveries for DIA was obtained using the clay mineral. For ATOH the recovery was also higher on the clay mineral, although for this compound the most suitable SPE cartridge is constituted by cation exchange resin. After the concentration and elution steps, the 0.50 and 2.50 microg L(-1) gave chromatographic peak areas that could be easily quantified with an analytical curve obtained in the concentration range between 7.5 and 100 microg L(-1). The obtained concentration factors are suitable to allow the application of the method to the monitoring of triazine residues in drinking water.	1	pesticide
17723768	Detection of carbamic and organophosphorous pesticides in water samples using a cholinesterase biosensor based on Prussian Blue-modified screen-printed electrode.	In the present paper, a comparative study using Co-phthalocyanine and Prussian Blue-modified screen-printed electrodes, has been performed. Both the electrodes have demonstrated an easiness of preparation together with high sensitivity towards thicoholine (LOD=5 x 10(-7) and 5 x 10(-6) M for Co-phthalocyanine and Prussian Blue, respectively) with high potentialities for pesticide measurement. Prussian Blue-modified screen-printed electrodes were then selected for successive enzyme immobilization due to their higher operative stability demonstrated in previous works. AChE and BChE enzymes were used and inhibition effect of different pesticides was studied with both the enzymes. AChE-based biosensors have demonstrated a higher sensitivity towards aldicarb (50% inhibition with 50 ppb) and carbaryl (50% inhibition with 85 ppb) while BChE biosensors have shown a higher affinity towards paraoxon (50% inhibition with 4 ppb) and chlorpyrifos-methyl oxon (50% inhibition with 1 ppb). Real samples were also tested in order to evaluate the matrix effect and recovery values comprised between 79 and 123% were obtained.	1	pesticide
17750872	Transpiration Rate Reduction in Plants with Atrazine.	When treated with atrazine, a herbicide that acts as an inhibitor of photosynthesis, both tolerant and susceptible plants showed a reduction in transpiration rate. This occurred within 1 to 3 hours of application and usually reduced transpiration by 50 percent or more after about 6 hours.	1	pesticide
17765949	Toxicity of four antifouling biocides and their mixtures on the brine shrimp Artemia salina.	Zinc pyrithione (ZPT), Copper pyrihione (CPT), Chlorothalonil and Diuron are four of the most widely used as alternative to tributlytin (TBT) antifouling biocides in boat paints. As most previous laboratory bioassays for these biocides have been conducted solely based on acute tests with a single compound, information on the possible combined toxicity of these common biocides to marine organisms are limited. In this study, the toxicity of binary (in several proportions), ternary and quaternary mixtures were evaluated using the brine shrimp Artemia salina as test organism. Mixture toxicities were studied using the concentration addition model (isobolograms and toxic unit summation), and the mixture toxicity index (MTI). The ZPT-CPT combination had a strictly synergistic effect which requires attention because the coexistence of ZPT and CPT in the marine environment, due to transchelation of ZPT, may occur. The binary mixtures of Diuron with the metal pyrithiones exhibited various interactive effects (synergistic, antagonistic or additive) depending on concentration ratios, whereas all binary mixtures that contained Chlorothalonil exhibited antagonistic effects. The different types of combined effects subsequent to proportion variation of binary mixtures underline the importance of the combined toxicity characterization for various ratios of concentrations. The four ternary mixtures tested, also exhibited various interactive effects, and the quaternary mixture exhibited synergism. The models applied were in agreement in most cases. The observed synergistic interactions underline the requirement to review water quality guidelines, which are likely underestimating the adverse combined effects of these chemicals.	1	pesticide
17772621	Toxic Residues in Soil 9 Years after Treatment with Aldrin and Heptachlor.	In silt loam soil heavily infested with European wireworm, a single treatment with aldrin or hepta chlor prevented reinfestation for 9 years, even when the soil was under continuous cultivation. Toxic residues were determined by bioassay with Drosophila melanogaster Meig. By gasliquid chromatographic analysis, the residues were found to be mainly dieldrin and heptachlor epoxide.	1	pesticide
17849895	Comparisons of malathion susceptibility, target sensitivity, and detoxification enzyme activity in nine field populations of Oxya chinensis (Orthoptera: Acrididae).	The malathion susceptibility, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) sensitivity, and the activity of selected detoxification enzymes including general esterase (EST) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) were compared among field populations of the grasshopper Oxya chinensis (Thunberg) (Orthoptera: Acrididae) collected from nine regions of China. Bioassay results showed that these populations had various levels of the susceptibility to malathion with the LDo values ranging from 1.4- to 22.6-fold compared with the most susceptible population (Xiangyuan or XY). The Jinnan (JN) population seemed to be malathion resistant (22.6-fold), whereas other populations exhibited 1.4- to 6.8-fold reduced malathion susceptibility with a rank order of Changan > Baodi > Hanzhong > Xinxiang > Yinchuan > Beidagang > Jinyuan. It seemed that the observed malathion resistance in the JN population was attributed to at least two resistance mechanisms, including increased EST activity (2.2-fold) and reduced sensitivity of AChE to inhibition by malaoxon (4.6-fold) compared with those of the XY population. In contrast, differential malathion susceptibilities in other populations may be due to increased activities of certain detoxification enzymes (e.g., EST and GST), reduced sensitivity of AChE, or other factors, which were not consistent across the populations examined. Such differential susceptibilities to malathion were likely due to different population habitats (e.g., grasslands, rice [Oryza sativa L.]-producing regions) with very different insecticide application histories and pest management practices.	1	pesticide
17867872	Acute and chronic toxicity of technical-grade pesticides to glochidia and juveniles of freshwater mussels (Unionidae).	Chemical contaminants are among many potential factors involved in the decline of freshwater mussel populations in North America, and the effects of pesticides on early life stages of unionid mussels are largely unknown. The objective of this study was to determine the toxicity of technical-grade current-use pesticides to glochidia and juvenile life stages of freshwater mussels. We performed acute toxicity tests with glochidia (five species) and juveniles (two species) exposed to a suite of current-use pesticides including herbicides (atrazine and pendimethalin), insecticides (fipronil and permethrin), and a reference toxicant (NaCl). Because of limited availability of test organisms, not all species were tested with all pesticides. Toxicity tests with fungicides (chlorothalonil, propiconazole, and pyraclostrobin) were performed with one species (Lampsilis siliquoidea). Lampsilis siliquoidea glochidia and juveniles were highly sensitive to the fungicides tested but the technical-grade herbicides and insecticides, at concentrations approaching water solubility, were not acutely toxic to this or the other unionid species. In a 21-d chronic test with four-month-old juvenile L. siliquoidea, the 21-d median effective concentration (EC50) with atrazine was 4.3 mg/L and in atrazine treatments >or=3.8 mg/L mussel growth was significantly less than controls. The relatively high sensitivity of L. siliquoidea to chlorothalonil, propiconazole, and pyraclostrobin is similar to that reported for other aquatic organisms commonly used for toxicity testing. The relative risk associated with acute exposure of early life stages of mussels to technical-grade atrazine, pendimethalin, fipronil, and permethrin is likely low; however, survival and growth results with juvenile L. siliquoidea indicate that chronic exposure to high concentrations (>/=3.8 mg/L) of atrazine may have the potential to impact mussel populations and warrants further investigation.	1	pesticide
17874772	Desorption of hydrophobic compounds from laboratory-spiked sediments measured by Tenax absorbent and matrix solid-phase microextraction.	Tenax extraction and matrix solid-phase microextraction (matrix-SPME) were used to study desorption of hydrophobic contaminants (HOC) from sediments. 14C-labeled hexachlorobiphenyl, DDE, permethrin, chlorpyrifos, and phenanthrene were individually spiked into sediments differing in physical characteristics. Sequestration of the HOCs into sediment was observed for all compounds, and desorption was described by rapid, slow, and very slow rates. The freely dissolved HOC concentration in the sediment porewater was estimated by matrix-SPME, and serial sampling was used to ensure equilibrium was achieved among sediment, porewater and matrix-SPME fiber. Differences in partitioning of the HOCs between sediment and porewater for the different sediments were reduced by replacing the HOC concentration in sediment with the rapidly desorbing fraction. The significantly lower porewater concentration determined from matrix-SPME, than predicted from equilibrium partitioning theory (EPT), showed that only a small fraction of sediment HOCs were available for equilibrium and the predictability of EPT can be improved with the consideration of sequestration in sediment. A good correlation was noted between sediment concentration in the rapidly desorbing fraction measured by Tenax extraction, and SPME fiber concentration as determined by matrix-SPME. Thus, the two methods both tracked the readily desorbed contaminant equally well though Tenax extraction measures the accessible pool, and matrix-SPME measures the chemical activity of the HOCs.	1	pesticide
17885933	Risk assessments for exposure of deployed military personnel to insecticides and personal protective measures used for disease-vector management.	Infectious diseases are problematic for deployed military forces throughout the world, and, historically, more military service days have been lost to insect-vectored diseases than to combat. Because of the limitations in efficacy and availability of both vaccines and therapeutic drugs, vector management often is the best tool that military personnel have against most vector-borne pathogens. However, the use of insecticides may raise concerns about the safety of their effects on the health of the military personnel exposed to them. Therefore, our objective was to use risk assessment methodologies to evaluate health risks to deployed U.S. military personnel from vector management tactics. Our conservative tier-1, quantitative risk assessment focused on acute, subchronic, and chronic exposures and cancer risks to military personnel after insecticide application and use of personal protective measures in different scenarios. Exposures were estimated for every scenario, chemical, and pathway. Acute, subchronic, and chronic risks were assessed using a margin of exposure (MOE) approach. Our MOE was the ratio of a no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) to an estimated exposure. MOEs were greater than the levels of concern (LOCs) for all surface residual and indoor space spraying exposures, except acute dermal exposure to lambda-cyhalothrin. MOEs were greater than the LOCs for all chemicals in the truck-mounted ultra-low-volume (ULV) exposure scenario. The aggregate cancer risk for permethrin exceeded 1 x 10(-6), but more realistic exposure refinements would reduce the cancer risk below that value. Overall, results indicate that health risks from exposures to insecticides and personal protective measures used by military personnel are low.	1	pesticide
17915515	Insecticide resistance in potential vector mosquitoes for West Nile virus in Japan.	Culex pipiens complex is the significant vector mosquito of West Nile virus. To take stock of the current situation of insecticide susceptibilities and design an ideal mosquito control strategy, we collected Culex pipiens pallens Coquillet, Culex pipiens form molestus Forskal, and Culex quinquefasciatus Say from fields in Japan and conducted bioassays for five larvicides (fenitrothion, temephos, etofenprox, diflubenzuron, and pyriproxyfen) by using a larval dipping method. Among five insecticides tested, obvious reduced susceptibilities were observed for etofenprox, which is the only pyrethroid compound registered as a larvicide in Japan. Twenty-two of 56 colonies exhibited a >10% survival rate at the etofenprox concentration of 5.7 microg/ml, which is a 10 times higher concentration of the working solution. The LC50 of a colony collected from Fukuoka prefecture for etofenprox exceeded 60 microg/ml (resistance ratio >2,307), and this colony also exhibited cross-resistance to other pyrethroids, permethrin (299-fold) and phenothrin (1,200-fold). The insect growth regulators diflubenzuron and pyriproxyfen were found to be sufficiently effective enough to control Culex larvae present, but decreased sensitivities to these insecticides were slightly detected in some colonies of Cx. p. form molestus collected from urban areas. Several etofenprox-resistant colonies of Cx. p. form molestus exhibited simultaneously decreased susceptibilities to other insecticides, including temephos, diflubenzuron, and pyriproxyfen.	1	pesticide
17958836	High in vitro efficacy of Nyda L, a pediculicide containing dimeticone.	BACKGROUND: The therapy of pediculosis remains a common problem in clinical practice. As resistance to commonly used chemical pediculicides is constantly increasing, there is a need for new effective compounds. STUDY DESIGN: The efficacy of Nyda L, a new pediculicide containing a high concentration of dimeticone, was assessed in an in vitro trial and compared with three reference products (Hedrin containing 4% dimeticone, Lyclear containing 1% permethrin, and Prioderm containing 1% malathion) and a negative control group. Head lice were collected from heavily infested patients in a resource-poor community in Northeast Brazil, where no resistance against pediculicides has been reported thus far. In each of the five groups, 50 adult fully vital lice were tested. We used a dip test (immersing head lice in the undiluted products for 3 min, washing off products after 20 min). Using predefined criteria for mortality, the lice were monitored at different points in time, for a period of 24 h. RESULTS: Nyda L and Prioderm killed all head lice already after 5 min. The efficacy of Nyda L was better than of Lyclear. Lice treated with Hedrin resurrected after several hours and did not show a significantly higher mortality compared with the control group after 24 h. CONCLUSION: Nyda L can be regarded as a very efficacious pediculicidal compound, killing all lice in vitro within 5 min.	1	pesticide
17978955	Leaching of seven pesticides currently used in cotton crop in Mato Grosso State-Brazil.	This study aimed to evaluate the leaching of pesticides and the applicability of the Attenuation Factor (AF) Model to predict their leaching. The leaching of carbofuran, carbendazim, diuron, metolachlor, alpha and beta endosulfan and chlorpyrifos was studied in an Oxisol using a field experiment lysimeter located in Dom Aquino-Mato Grosso. The samples of percolated water were collected by rain event and analyzed. Chemical and physical soil attributes were determined before pesticide application to the plots. The results showed that carbofuran was the pesticide that presented a higher leaching rate in the studied soil, so was the one representing the highest contamination potential. From the total carbofuran applied in the soil surface, around 6% leached below 50 cm. The other pesticides showed lower mobility in the studied soil. The calculated values to AF were 7.06E-12 (carbendazim), 5.08E-03 (carbofuran), 3.12E-17 (diuron), 6.66E-345 (alpha-endosulfan), 1.47E-162 (beta-endosulfan), 1.50E-06 (metolachlor), 3.51E-155 (chlorpyrifos). AF Model was useful to classify the pesticides' potential for contamination; however, that model underestimated pesticide leaching.	1	pesticide
17978956	Biodegradation of the herbicide glyphosate by filamentous fungi in platform shaker and batch bioreactor.	The biodegradation conducted by microorganisms on herbicide glyphosate (N-phosphonomethylglycine) was investigated. Five strains of filamentous fungi belonging to the Fusarium genre were grown on Czapeck medium without phosphorous and supplemented with the addition of glyphosate. The assays were conducted to determine the ability of use as a phosphorous source, the inhibition caused by presence of herbicide, and the biodegradation in shaker and bioreactor by Fusarium strains. It was observed that the herbicide did not show any negative effect on microrganisms by quantity of the biomass. Among the strains tested, no inhibition was noted by the addition of glyphosate even at a high concentration. All strains studied were able to biodegrade it and use the herbicide as a phosphorous source. The formation of consortium was not better than the strains tested in pure culture. The biodegradation in the bioreactor was better than in the shaker. However, there wasn't any influence on biodegradation rate by changing the amount of oxygen in the system.	1	pesticide
17985354	Fast determination of herbicides in waters by ultra-performance liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry.	A rapid multiresidue method for the analysis of more than 40 herbicides (such as simazine, terbuthylazine and diuron) in waters has been developed and validated by ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC/MS/MS). Prior to chromatographic determination, the samples were extracted using a solid-phase extraction procedure. The analysis was performed on an Acquity UPLC BEH C(18) column using a gradient elution profile and a mobile phase consisting of methanol and an aqueous solution of formic acid (0.01%). Other chromatographic and MS/MS parameters were optimised in order to improve selectivity and sensitivity of the analytes. The analytes were detected using electrospray ionisation (ESI)-MS/MS in positive ion mode with multiple reaction monitoring (MRM), optimising parameters such as voltage cone, capillary voltage, source and desolvation temperature, and desolvation and cone gas flow. The optimised method provides a rapid separation (less than 10 min) of the selected herbicides in the assayed matrices, and it was validated by the analysis of spiked blank matrix samples. Good linearity was obtained and the repeatability of the method was less than 20% for the lowest calibration point. The limits of detection ranged from 0.002 to 0.02 microg/L, and the limits of quantification from 0.005 to 0.05 microg/L, which were below the values specified by the European Union. Finally, the method was successfully applied to real environmental samples from Andalusia (southern Spain). Terbuthylazine, simazine, atrazine desisopropyl and desethyl terbuthylazine were the herbicides most frequently found in water samples.	1	pesticide
18044492	Fine-scale spatial variation of persistent organic pollutants in bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) in Biscayne Bay, Florida.	Bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) are long-term residents and apex predators in southeast U.S. estuaries and are vulnerable to bioaccumulation of persistent organic pollutants (POPs). Dart biopsy samples were collected from 45 dolphins in Biscayne Bay (Miami, FL), 34 of which were matched using fin markings to a photo identification catalogue. Blubber samples were analyzed for 73 polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) congeners, six polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE) congeners, and organochlorine pesticides including dichloro-diphenyl-trichloroethane (DDT) and metabolites, chlordanes, and dieldrin. Total PCBs (sigma 73PCBs) were present in the highest concentrations and were 5 times higher in males with sighting histories in the northern, metropolitan area of Biscayne Bay than males with sighting histories in the southern, more rural area [geometric mean: 43.3 (95% confidence interval: 28.0-66.9) vs 8.6 (6.3-11.9) microg/g wet mass, respectively]. All compound classes had higher concentrations in northern animals than southern. The differences in POP concentrations found on this small geographic scale demonstrate that differential habitat use can strongly influence pollutant concentrations and should be considered when interpreting bottlenose dolphin POP data. The PCB concentrations in northern Bay dolphins are high as compared to other studies of estuarine dolphins and may place these animals at risk of reproductive failure and decreased immune function.	1	pesticide
18061672	Influence of exposure scenario on pesticide toxicity in the midge Kiefferulus calligaster (Kieffer).	"In aquatic environments, many factors determine the overall impact of a toxic event, constituting ""exposure scenarios"" that must be understood so that risk assessment strategies can be successfully applied. In this work, an experimental design was planned to investigate the influence of the organism age, duration of exposure and subsequent recovery period (after cessation of toxic exposure) on chlorpyrifos or carbendazim toxicity to Kiefferulus calligaster. The endpoints studied were cholinesterase (ChE) activity and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity. The influence of age and exposure time and the existence of recovery depend on the chemical and the biomarkers tested, suggesting that no general rule can be applied when trying to assess overall toxicity of pesticides and that detailed knowledge has to be acquired on a case-to-case basis."	1	pesticide
18067946	Partitioning of hydrophobic organic compounds within soil-water-surfactant systems.	Understanding the partitioning of hydrophobic organic compounds (HOCs) within soil-water-surfactant systems is key to improving the use of surfactants for remediation. The overall objective of this study was to investigate the soil properties that influence the effectiveness of surfactants used to remediate soil contaminated with hydrophobic pesticides, as an example of a more general application for removing strongly sorbing HOCs from contaminated soils via in-situ enhanced sorption, or ex-situ soil washing. In this study, the partitioning of two commonly used pesticides, atrazine and diuron, within soil-water-surfactant systems was investigated. Five natural soils, one nonionic surfactant (Triton-100 (TX)) and one cationic surfactant (benzalkonium chloride (BC)) were used. The results showed that the cation exchange capacity (CEC) is the soil property that controls surfactant sorption onto the soils. Diuron showed much higher solubility enhancement than atrazine with the micelles of either surfactant. Within an ex-situ soil washing system, TX is more effective for soils with lower CEC than those with higher CEC. Within an in-situ enhanced sorption zone, BC works significantly better with more hydrophobic HOCs. The HOC sorption capacity of the sorbed surfactant (K(ss)) was a non-linear function of the amount of surfactant sorbed. For the cationic surfactant (BC), the maximal K(ss) occurred when around 40% of the total CEC sites in the various soils were occupied by sorbed surfactant. Below a sub-saturation sorption range (~20 g/kg), under the same amount of BC sorbed, a soil with lower CEC tends to have higher K(ss) than the one with higher CEC.	1	pesticide
18069656	Suitability of two laboratory testing methods to evaluate the side effects of pesticides on Typhlodromus pyri Scheuten (Acari: Phytoseiidae).	BACKGROUND: Laboratory results of the French ANPP/CEB guideline No. 167 and IOBC/WPRS Ring Testing Group methods for testing the side effects of pesticides on the predatory mite Typhlodromus pyri Scheuten were compared with respect to their suitability to evaluate the toxicity of three pesticides. RESULTS: Results obtained with the ANPP/CEB guideline allow the demonstration of significant differences between two slightly toxic products, a dichlofluanid 500 g kg(-1) kWP (Euparen) 50WP) and a quinoxyfen 250 g L(-1) SCC (Legend), and a highly toxic cymoxanil 60/mancozeb 200/folpet 275 g kg(-1) WP [Remiltine F Pepite) (RFP)], on the basis of bioassays conducted in the laboratory. In contrast, results obtained with the IOBC/WPRS method classified all three as harmful. CONCLUSION: The evaluation of the toxicity of RFP revealed that the concentration, the quantity of the wet deposit and the food source used in the IOBC/WPRS method maximise the toxicity, in comparison with those used in the ANPP/CEB protocol. Valid criteria in controls were all respected in the ANPP/CEB tests but not in the IOBC/WPRS samples. This result revealed difficulties related to the use of the IOBC/WPRS method in laboratories.	1	pesticide
18069659	Herbicides, glyphosate resistance and acute mammalian toxicity: simulating an environmental effect of glyphosate-resistant weeds in the USA.	BACKGROUND: With the emergence of glyphosate-resistant (GR) weeds, the environmental consequences of alternatives to GR technology are of increasing importance. A well-known acute mammalian toxicity measure, the LD(50) dose for rats, is used to assess one potential environmental impact of the loss of GR technology. A new dataset with this index is used to estimate and simulate the effects for corn, soybeans and cotton. RESULTS: With conventional tillage it is found that the use of GR seeds reduces the number of LD(50) doses applied per hectare by 17-98% depending on crop. With no-till, the use of GR seeds reduces LD(50) doses only in corn. If farmers switch to conventional seeds because of GR weeds but maintain the same tillage practice, the present simulations suggest that LD(50) doses could increase by as much as 100 LD(50) doses per hectare in soybeans, and 500 LD(50) doses per hectare in cotton, or 11.4 and 19.8% respectively. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to use field-level data to assess GR technology with a mammalian toxicity environmental indicator. It has been found that GR crops have a positive environmental effect, and that alternatives to GR technology increase toxicity.	1	pesticide
18177342	Effects of possible endocrine disruptors on MyD88-independent TLR4 signaling.	Endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) may potentially worsen infectious diseases because EDCs disturb human immune function by interfering with endocrine balance. To evaluate the influence of EDCs on the innate immune function of macrophages, we investigated the effects of 37 possible EDCs on lipopolysaccharide-induced activation of the IFN-beta promoter. Alachlor, atrazine, benomyl, bisphenol A, carbaryl, diethyl phthalate, dipropyl phthalate, kelthane, kepone, malathion, methoxychlor, octachlorostyrene, pentachlorophenol, nonyl phenol, p-octylphenol, simazine and ziram all inhibited the activation. Kepone and ziram showed strong inhibitory effects. Aldicarb, amitrole, benzophenone, butyl benzyl phthalate, 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid, dibutyl phthalate, 2,4-dichlorophenol, dicyclohexyl phthalate, diethylhexyl adipate, diethylhexyl phthalate, dihexyl phthalate, di-n-pentyl phthalate, methomyl, metribuzin, nitrofen, 4-nitrotoluene, permethrin, trifluralin, 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid and vinclozolin had no significant effects at 100 muM. These results indicate that some agrochemicals and resin-related chemicals may potentially inhibit macrophage function, which suggests that endocrine disruptors may influence the development of infectious diseases.	1	pesticide
18185947	Contaminant concentrations and histopathological effects in Sacramento splittail (Pogonichthys macrolepidotus).	Sacramento splittail (Pogonichthys macrolepidotus) is a species of special concern in California, due to multiple anthropogenic stressors. To better understand the potential impact of contaminant exposure, adult splittail were captured from the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta (California, USA) and analyzed for histopathology and contaminant exposure. Organochlorine contaminants (PCBs, DDTs, dieldrin, chlordanes, and PBDEs) and trace metals (Ag, As, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Mn, Mo, Ni, Pb, Se, Sn, V, and Zn) were detected in the tissues of all fish. In many samples, human health screening values were exceeded for PCBs (83 of 90 samples), DDTs (32 samples), and dieldrin (37 samples). In contrast, thresholds for fish effects were rarely exceeded. Histopathological analysis indicated the presence of macrophage aggregates in gonads, kidneys, and liver and a high incidence of liver abnormalities. In the liver, observed effects were often moderate to severe for glycogen depletion (55 of 95 fish), lipidosis (hepatocellular vacuolation; 51 fish), and cytoplasmic inclusion bodies (33 fish). Correlations between histopathology and tissue contaminant concentrations were weak and inconsistent. Significant correlations were observed between histopathology indicators and reductions in fish size, body condition, lipid content, and liver weight. These results suggest that splittail histopathology varies as a function of health and nutritional status, rather than exposure to legacy organic and metal pollutants.	1	pesticide
18192751	Synthesis and characterization of a propazine imprinted polymer for the extraction of triazines herbicides.	A MIP (molecularly imprinted polymer) was synthesized and evaluated for its use as sorbent for solid phase extraction (MISPE) of common used triazines (atrazine and terbuthylazine) and their widespread metabolites (desethyl-atrazine and desethyl-terbuthylazine) in water samples. MIP was produced by bulk polymerisation using methacrylic acid as functional monomer, ethylene glycol dimethacrylate as cross-linker, propazine as template and toluene as porogen solvent. Different washing methods of the synthesized polymer were evaluated. Soxhlet extraction provided the best results with a residual concentration of propazine, ranging from 0.78 to 2.86 mug for 1 g of polymer. Capacity factor was calculated using a 5 cm HPLC column filled with MIP and NIP (Not Imprinted Polymer): data extrapolation indicated a log Kw of 4.3 for MIP and a log Kw of 3.5 for NIP. Also frontal analyses confirmed a different behaviour of the two polymers. By comparing the recovery efficiency of MIP with that of traditional LiChrolut EN cartridge in the extraction of a River Po water sample, the results confirmed the reliability of this new technique for the analysis of herbicide compounds.	1	pesticide
18202883	Distribution of pesticides, PAHs, PCBs, and bioavailable metals in depositional sediments of the lower Missouri River, USA.	The lower Missouri River was studied to determine the distribution of selected persistent organic pollutants and bioavailable metals in depositional sediments. Nineteen sites between Omaha, Nebraska and Jefferson City, Missouri were sampled. This stretch of the river receives point-source and non-point-source inputs from industrial, urban, and agricultural activities. As part of an ecological assessment of the river, concentrations of 29 legacy organochlorine pesticides (OC pesticides), including chlordanes, DDTs, and hexachlorocyclohexanes; a select list of current-use pesticides, including trifluralin, diazinon, chlorpyrifos, and permethrin, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), divalent metals (copper, nickel, zinc, cadmium, and lead), and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) were determined. Concentrations (dry weight basis) of OC pesticides in the sediments were less than 1 ng/g, with the exception of the backwater sediment collected from the mouth of the Blue River in the Kansas City metropolitan area, which contained up to 20 ng/g total chlordane, 8.1 ng/g p,p'-DDE, 1.5 ng/g lindane, 4.8 ng/g dieldrin, and 3 ng/g endrin. Concentrations of chlorpyrifos and permethrin ranged from less than 1 ng/g to 5.5 ng/g and 44 ng/g, respectively. Concentrations of PCBs ranged from less than 11 ng/g to 250 ng/g, with the Blue River and Sibley sediments containing 100 and 250 ng/g total PCBs, respectively. Concentrations of total PAHs at 17 of the 19 sites ranged from 250 to 700 ng/g, whereas the Riverfront and Blue River sites in Kansas City contained 1100 ng/g and nearly 4000 ng/g, respectively. Concentrations of the metals did not vary significantly among most sites; however, the Blue River site contained elevated concentrations of zinc (104 microg/g), cadmium (0.7 microg/g), and lead (34 microg/g) compared to the other sites. The moderately high concentrations of acid-volatile sulfide in the sediments suggest a low potential for metal toxicity to benthic organisms along this reach of the Missouri River. The depositional area sediments contained concentrations of the targeted persistent organic chemicals and metals that were below published probable effect level concentrations.	1	pesticide
18206347	Neurobehavioral toxicology of pyrethroid insecticides in adult animals: a critical review.	Pyrethroids are pesticides with high selectivity for insects. In order to identify strengths and gaps in the database for pyrethroid neurobehavioral toxicology, we have critically analyzed the data from peer-reviewed literature. This review includes dose-response data that have been recently generated demonstrating consistent findings for low-dose, acute, oral exposure to pyrethroids in small rodents. All pyrethroids tested (i.e., about twenty compounds), regardless of structure, produce a decrease in motor activity in a variety of test protocols. The range of relative potencies varies more than two orders of magnitude, and thresholds for motor activity were found well below doses that produce overt signs of poisoning. Six compounds (allethrin, permethrin, cis-permethrin, deltamethrin, cypermethrin, and fenvalerate) impair schedule-controlled operant responding, seven compounds (pyrethrum, bifenthrin, S-bioallethrin, permethrin, beta-cyfluthrin, cypermethrin, and deltamethrin) decrease grip strength, and two compounds (deltamethrin and alpha-cypermethrin) produce incoordination using the rotarod. In addition, while compounds lacking an alpha-cyano group (e.g., cismethrin, permethrin, bifenthrin) induce an increase in acoustic-evoked startle response amplitude, cyano compounds (e.g., deltamethrin, cypermethrin, cyfluthrin) produce the opposite outcome. Other endpoints (e.g., tremor intensity, sensory response) have been only occasionally explored. A synthesis of the neurobehavioral evidence relating to the action of pyrethroids indicates that some differences in the experimental findings across compounds are also present in the low-effective dose range. For risk assessment purposes, a strategy that takes into account data from an array of neurobehavioral endpoints is needed to capture the heterogeneity of pyrethroid-induced adverse effects and accurately inform policy decisions.	1	pesticide
18211903	Escherichia coli YqhD exhibits aldehyde reductase activity and protects from the harmful effect of lipid peroxidation-derived aldehydes.	Evidence that Escherichia coli YqhD is involved in bacterial response to compounds that generate membrane lipid peroxidation is presented. Overexpression of yqhD results in increased resistance to the reactive oxygen species-generating compounds hydrogen peroxide, paraquat, chromate, and potassium tellurite. Increased tolerance was also observed for the lipid peroxidation-derived aldehydes butanaldehyde, propanaldehyde, acrolein, and malondialdehyde and the membrane-peroxidizing compound tert-butylhydroperoxide. Expression of yqhD was also associated with changes in the concentration of intracellular peroxides and cytoplasmic protein carbonyl content and with a reduction in intracellular acrolein levels. When compared with the wild type strain, an yqhD mutant exhibited a sensitive phenotype to all these compounds and also augmented levels of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances, which may indicate an increased level of lipid peroxidation. Purified YqhD catalyzes the in vitro reduction of acetaldehyde, malondialdehyde, propanaldehyde, butanaldehyde, and acrolein in a NADPH-dependent reaction. Finally, yqhD transcription was induced in cells that had been exposed to conditions favoring lipid peroxidation. Taken together these results indicate that this enzyme may have a physiological function by protecting the cell against the toxic effect of aldehydes derived from lipid oxidation. We speculate that in Escherichia coli YqhD is part of a glutathione-independent, NADPH-dependent response mechanism to lipid peroxidation.	1	pesticide
18218755	Alfalfa containing the glyphosate-tolerant trait has no effect on feed intake, milk composition, or milk production of dairy cattle.	The objective of this experiment was to assess if feeding glyphosate-tolerant alfalfa affects feed intake, milk composition, or milk production of dairy cows. One alfalfa (Medicago sativa), variety expressing the CP4 EPSPS protein and grown in southeastern Washington State was harvested at the late vegetative stage as hay. Three commercial conventional varieties of alfalfa hay of similar nutrient composition and harvested in the same geographic region were fed to cows as controls. The commercial hays were selected to be similar in crude protein [18% of dry matter (DM)] and neutral detergent fiber (40% of DM) to the glyphosate-tolerant hay. Sixteen multiparous Holstein cows were fed diets containing alfalfa hay (39.7% of diet DM) from either the glyphosate-tolerant alfalfa, or 1 of the 3 conventional varieties. Diets contained at least 15.7% crude protein and 29% neutral detergent fiber. Experimental design was a replicated 4 x 4 Latin square. Periods were 28 d and feed intake, milk yield, and milk composition were summarized over the last 14 d of each period. Daily milk yield (38.0 kg) and 4% fat-corrected milk (34.7 kg) were not affected by treatment. Milk fat (3.44%) and milk true protein (2.98%) were also not affected by source of hay. Milk lactose (4.72%) and soldis-not-fat (8.5%) did not differ due to treatment. Dry matter intake was similar across treatments (24.4 kg/d). These results are consistent with data from feeding trials with other glyphosate-tolerant crops and previously reported compositional comparisons of glyphosate-tolerant alfalfa with controls. Milk production, milk composition, feed intake, and feed efficiency were not affected by feeding diets that contained nearly 40% glyphosate-tolerant alfalfa hay to lactating dairy cows.	1	pesticide
18234487	An impedimetric immunosensor based on interdigitated microelectrodes (IDmicroE) for the determination of atrazine residues in food samples.	A novel impedimetric immunosensor for atrazine detection has been developed. The immunosensor is based on an array of interdigitated micro-electrodes (IDmicroE) and immunoreagents specifically developed to detect this pesticide. Immunochemical determination of atrazine is possible without the use of any label. An atrazine-haptenized protein was covalently immobilized on the surface of the interdigitated mu-electrodes area (interdigits space) previously activated with (3-glycidoxypropyl)trimethoxysilane. Before, the gold electrodes were blocked using N-acetylcysteamine to prevent non-specific adsorptions. All biofunctionalization steps were characterized by chemical affinity methods and impedance spectroscopy. Immunosensors measures are made by exposing the sensor to solutions containing a mixture of the analyte and the specific antibody. With this configuration, the immunosensor detects atrazine with a limit of detection of 0.04 microg L(-1) without the use of any label. The potential of the immunosensor to analyze pesticide residues in complex sample matrices, such as red wine, has been evaluated. The results shown that after solid-phase extraction atrazine can be determined in this type of sample with a limit of detection of 0.19 microg L(-1), far below the Maximum Residue Level (MRL) established by EC for residues of this herbicide in wine.	1	pesticide
18243543	Degradation of the fungicide carbendazim in aqueous solutions with UV/TiO(2) process: optimization, kinetics and toxicity studies.	"An attempt was made to investigate the potential of UV-photocatalytic process in the presence of TiO(2) particles for the degradation of carbendazim (C(9)H(9)N(3)O(2)), a fungicide with a high worldwide consumption but considered as a ""priority hazard substance"" by the Water Framework Directive of the European Commission (WFDEC). A circulating upflow photo-reactor was employed and the influence of catalyst concentration, pH and temperature were investigated. The results showed that degradation of this fungicide can be conducted in the both processes of only UV-irradiation and UV/TiO(2); however, the later provides much better results. Accordingly, a degradation of more than 90% of fungicide was achieved by applying the optimal operational conditions of 70 mgL(-1) of catalyst, natural pH of 6.73 and ambient temperature of 25 degrees C after 75 min irradiation. Under these mild conditions, the initial rate of degradation can be described well by the Langmuir-Hinshelwood kinetic model. Toxicological assessments on the obtained samples were also performed by measurement of the mycelium growth inhibition of Fusarium oxysporum fungus on PDA medium. The results indicate that the kinetics of degradation and toxicity are in reasonably good agreement mainly after 45 min of irradiation; confirming the effectiveness of photocatalytic process."	1	pesticide
18248566	Dynamics of insecticide resistance in the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae s.l. from an area of extensive cotton cultivation in Northern Cameroon.	OBJECTIVE: To explore temporal variation in insecticide susceptibility of Anopheles gambiae s.l. populations to the four chemical groups of insecticides used in public health and agriculture, in close match with the large-scale cotton spraying programme implemented in the cotton-growing area of North Cameroon. METHODS: Mosquito larvae were collected in 2005 before (mid June), during (mid August) and at the end (early October) of the cotton spraying programme. Larvae were sampled in breeding sites located within the cotton fields in Gaschiga and Pitoa, and in Garoua, an urban cotton-free area that served as a control. Insecticide susceptibility tests were carried out with 4% DDT (organochlorine), 0.4% chlorpyrifos methyl (organophosphate), 0.1% propoxur (carbamate), 0.05% deltamethrin and 0.75% permethrin (pyrethroids). RESULTS: Throughout the survey, An. gambiae s.l. populations were completely susceptible to carbamate and organophosphate, whereas a significant decrease of susceptibility to organochlorine and pyrethroids was observed during spraying in cotton-growing areas. Tolerance to these insecticides was associated with a slight increase of knockdown times compared to the reference strain. Among survivor mosquitoes, the East and West African Kdr mutations were detected only in two specimens of An. gambiae s.s. (n = 45) and not in Anopheles arabiensis (n = 150), suggesting metabolic-based resistance mechanisms. CONCLUSIONS: Environmental disturbance due to the use of insecticides in agriculture may provide local mosquito populations with the enzymatic arsenal selecting tolerance to insecticides.	1	pesticide
18268312	Mitigation assessment of vegetated drainage ditches for collecting irrigation runoff in California.	Widespread contamination of California water bodies by the organophosphate insecticides diazinon and chlorpyrifos is well documented. While their usage has decreased over the last few years, a concomitant increase in pyrethroid usage (e.g., permethrin) (replacement insecticides) has occurred. Vegetated agricultural drainage ditches (VADD) have been proposed as a potential economical and environmentally efficient management practice to mitigate the effects of pesticides in irrigation and storm runoff. Three ditches were constructed in Yolo County, California for a field trial. A U-shaped vegetated ditch, a V-shaped vegetated ditch, and a V-shaped unvegetated ditch were each amended for 8 h with a mixture of diazinon, permethrin, and suspended sediment simulating an irrigation runoff event. Water, sediment, and plant samples were collected spatially and temporally and analyzed for diazinon and permethrin concentrations. Pesticide half-lives were similar between ditches and pesticides, ranging from 2.4 to 6.4 h. Differences in half-distances (distance required to reduce initial pesticide concentration by 50%) among pesticides and ditches were present, indicating importance of vegetation in mitigation. Cis-permethrin half-distances in V ditches ranged from 22 m (V-vegetated) to 50 m (V-unvegetated). Half-distances for trans-permethrin were similar, ranging from 21 m (V-vegetated) to 55 m (V-unvegetated). Diazinon half-distances demonstrated the greatest differences (55 m for V-vegetated and 158 m for V-unvegetated). Such economical and environmentally successful management practices will offer farmers, ranchers, and landowners a viable alternative to more conventional (and sometimes expensive) practices.	1	pesticide
18273882	Glyphosate: a once-in-a-century herbicide.	Since its commercial introduction in 1974, glyphosate [N-(phosphonomethyl)glycine] has become the dominant herbicide worldwide. There are several reasons for its success. Glyphosate is a highly effective broad-spectrum herbicide, yet it is very toxicologically and environmentally safe. Glyphosate translocates well, and its action is slow enough to take advantage of this. Glyphosate is the only herbicide that targets 5-enolpyruvyl-shikimate-3-phosphate synthase (EPSPS), so there are no competing herbicide analogs or classes. Since glyphosate became a generic compound, its cost has dropped dramatically. Perhaps the most important aspect of the success of glyphosate has been the introduction of transgenic, glyphosate-resistant crops in 1996. Almost 90% of all transgenic crops grown worldwide are glyphosate resistant, and the adoption of these crops is increasing at a steady pace. Glyphosate/glyphosate-resistant crop weed management offers significant environmental and other benefits over the technologies that it replaces. The use of this virtually ideal herbicide is now being threatened by the evolution of glyphosate-resistant weeds. Adoption of resistance management practices will be required to maintain the benefits of glyphosate technologies for future generations.	1	pesticide
18284743	Detection and evolution of resistance to the pyrethroid cypermethrin in Helicoverpa zea (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) populations in Texas.	The bollworm, Helicoverpa zea (Boddie), is a key pest of cotton in Texas. Bollworm populations are widely controlled with pyrethroid insecticides in cotton and exposed to pyrethroids in other major crops such as grain sorghum, corn, and soybeans. A statewide program that evaluated cypermethrin resistance in male bollworm populations using an adult vial test was conducted from 2003 to 2006 in the major cotton production regions of Texas. Estimated parameters from the most susceptible field population currently available (Burleson County, September 2005) were used to calculate resistance ratios and their statistical significance. Populations from several counties had statistically significant (P < or = 0.05) resistance ratios for the LC(50), indicating that bollworm-resistant populations are widespread in Texas. The highest resistance ratios for the LC(50) were observed for populations in Burleson County in 2000 and 2003, Nueces County in 2004, and Williamson and Uvalde Counties in 2005. These findings explain the observed pyrethroid control failures in various counties in Texas. Based on the assumption that resistance is caused by a single gene, the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium formula was used for estimation of frequencies for the putative resistant allele (q) using 3 and 10 microg/vial as discriminatory dosages for susceptible and heterozygote resistant insects, respectively. The influence of migration on local levels of resistance was estimated by analysis of wind trajectories, which partially clarifies the rapid evolution of resistance to cypermethrin in bollworm populations. This approach could be used in evaluating resistance evolution in other migratory pests.	1	pesticide
18295220	Micro-scale membrane extraction of glyphosate and aminomethylphosphonic acid in water followed by high-performance liquid chromatography and post-column derivatization with fluorescence detector.	A carrier-mediated supported liquid membrane micro-extraction using single hollow fiber membrane suitable for the determination of the herbicide glyphosate and its main metabolite aminomethylphosphonic acid in water is reported. A solution of 0.20 M Aliquat-336, a cationic carrier, in di-n-hexyl ether was selected as the supported liquid. A 20 microL of 1.0 M potassium chloride as the acceptor phase was filled in the membrane lumen. The membrane was immersed in a 20 mL of pH 9.0 sample solution. After 60-min extraction, the acceptor phase was analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography with post-column derivatization. The enrichment factors were found to be 853 and 136 for glyphosate and aminomethylphosphonic acid, respectively. The method detection limits are 0.22 microg/L for glyphosate and 3.40 microg/L for aminomethylphosphonic acid. The procedure was validated and showed good accuracy and precision over a large linear dynamic range. The validated method was tested for the analysis of both analytes in spiked groundwater with good success.	1	pesticide
18313720	Analysis of biomagnification of persistent organic pollutants in the aquatic food web of the Mekong Delta, South Vietnam using stable carbon and nitrogen isotopes.	The present study elucidated the biomagnification profiles of persistent organic pollutants (POPs) through a tropical aquatic food web of Vietnam based on trophic characterization using stable nitrogen analysis. Various biological samples collected from the main stream of the Mekong Delta were provided for the analysis for both POPs, and stable nitrogen and carbon isotope ratios. Of the POPs analyzed, dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane and its metabolites (DDTs) were the predominant contaminants with concentrations ranging from 0.058 to 12 ng/g wet weight, followed by polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) at 0.017-8.9 ng/g, chlordane compounds (CHLs) at 0.0043-0.76 ng/g, tris-4-chlorophenyl methane (TCPMe) at N.D.-0.26 ng/g, hexachlorocyclohexane isomers (HCHs) at N.D.-0.20 ng/g and hexachlorobenzene (HCB) at 0.0021-0.096 ng/g. Significant positive increases of concentrations in DDTs, CHLs, and TCPMe against the stable nitrogen ratio (delta(15)N) were detected, while, concentrations of HCHs and HCB showed no significant increase. The slopes of the regression equations between the log-transformed concentrations of these POPs and delta(15)N were used as indices of biomagnification. The slopes of the POPs for which positive biomagnification was detected ranged from 0.149 to 0.177 on a wet weight basis. The slopes of DDTs and CHLs were less than those reported for a marine food web of the Arctic Ocean, indicating that less biomagnification had occurred in the tropical food web. Of the isomers of CHLs, unlike the studies of the Arctic Ocean, oxychlordane did not undergo significant biomagnification through the food web of the Mekong Delta. This difference is considered to be due to a lack of marine mammals, which might metabolize cis- and trans-chlordane to oxychlordane, in the Mekong Delta ecosystem. The biomagnification profile of TCPMe is reported for the first time in the present study.	1	pesticide
18322939	Metabolic interactions of agrochemicals in humans.	Agrochemicals and other xenobiotics are metabolized by xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes (XMEs) to products that may be more or less toxic than the parent chemical. In this regard, phase-I XMEs such as cytochrome P450s (CYPs) are of primary importance. Interactions at the level of metabolism may take place via either inhibition or induction of XMEs. Such interactions have often been investigated, in vitro, in experimental animals, using subcellular fractions such as liver microsomes, but seldom in humans or at the level of individual XME isoforms. The authors have been investigating the metabolism of a number of agrochemicals by human liver microsomes and recombinant CYP isoforms and have recently embarked on studies of the induction of XMEs in human hepatocytes. The insecticides chlorpyrifos, carbaryl, carbofuran and fipronil, as well as the repellant DEET, are all extensively metabolized by human liver microsomes and, although a number of CYP isoforms may be involved, CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 are usually the most important. Permethrin is hydrolyzed by esterase(s) present in both human liver microsomes and cytosol. A number of metabolic interactions have been observed. Chlorpyrifos and other phosphorothioates are potent inhibitors of the CYP-dependent metabolism of both endogenous substrates, such as testosterone and estradiol, and exogenous substrates, such as carbaryl, presumably as a result of the interaction of highly reactive sulfur, released during the oxidative desulfuration reaction, with the heme iron of CYP. The hydrolysis of permethrin in human liver can be inhibited by chlorpyrifos oxon and by carbaryl. Fipronil can inhibit testosterone metabolism by CYP3A4 and is an effective inducer of CYP isoforms in human hepatocytes.	1	pesticide
18324641	Synthesis and insecticidal activity of new 3-benzylfuran-2-yl N,N,N',N'-tetraethyldiamidophosphate derivatives.	BACKGROUND: A series of 3-benzylfuran-2-yl N,N,N',N'-tetraethyldiamidophosphate derivatives were synthesized as potential new agents to control insects. Their structures were confirmed on the basis of IR, NMR and MS analyses. RESULTS: Ten 3-benzylfuran-2-ylN,N,N',N'-tetraethyl derivatives were prepared from the compound furan-2-yl N' (N,N,N',N'-tetraethyldiamidophosphate). The contact toxicity of all derivatives, at a dose of 10 microg mg(-1) insect, was evaluated against four insect species, Ascia monuste orseis Latr. (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), Diaphania hyalinata (L.) (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), Sitophilus zeamais Mots. (Coleoptera: Bruchidae) and Solenopsis saevissima (Smith) (Hymenoptera: Formicidae). The mortality range observed for some derivatives, such as 3-(3-methylbenzyl)furan-2-yl N,N,N',N'-tetraethyldiamidophosphate (82.5% mortality against D. hyalinata; 100% mortality against S. saevissima), was comparable with that of the commercial insecticide chlorpyrifos-methyl. The biological activity of the derivatives depended on the substitution pattern of the benzylic ring. Furan-2-yl N,N,N',N'-tetraethyldiamidophosphate, furan-2-yl N,N-diethylamidochlorophosphate and difuran-2-yl N,N-diethylamidophosphate were also evaluated, displaying, in some cases, activity comparable with that of chlorpyrifos-methyl (90%, 100% and 97.5% respectively against A. monuste orseis). Considerable activity was observed for some furan-2(5H)-ones evaluated. CONCLUSION: Ten 3-benzylfuran-2-yl N,N,N',N'-tetraethyldiamidophosphate derivatives were synthesized and fully characterized from a chemical point of view. The results obtained from the biological assays indicate that this class of compounds can be utilized for the design of new substances endowed with insecticidal activity.	1	pesticide
18358576	Use of toxicity identification evaluations to determine the pesticide mitigation effectiveness of on-farm vegetated treatment systems.	Evidence of ecological impacts from pesticide runoff has prompted installation of vegetated treatment systems (VTS) along the central coast of California, USA. During five surveys of two on-farm VTS ponds, 88% of inlet and outlet water samples were toxic to Ceriodaphnia dubia. Toxicity identification evaluations (TIEs) indicated water toxicity was caused by diazinon at VTS-1, and chlorpyrifos at VTS-2. Diazinon levels in VTS-1 were variable, but high pulse inflow concentrations were reduced through dilution. At VTS-2, chlorpyrifos concentrations averaged 52% lower at the VTS outlet than at the inlet. Water concentrations of most other pesticides averaged 20-90% lower at VTS outlets. All VTS sediment samples were toxic to amphipods (Hyalella azteca). Sediment TIEs indicated toxicity was caused by cypermethrin and lambda-cyhalothrin at VTS-1, and chlorpyrifos and permethrin at VTS-2. As with water, sediment concentrations were lower at VTS outlets, indicating substantial reductions in farm runoff pesticide concentrations.	1	pesticide
18361540	Scabies outbreaks in nursing homes for the elderly: recognition, treatment options and control of reinfestation.	The scabies mite is an ectoparasite able to infest humans. Its clinical presentation is typical, although in immunocompromised, mentally retarded and elderly patients the clinical presentation may be altered. Diagnosis may therefore be difficult in such patient groups, who often reside in nursing homes. Because delay in diagnosis may induce rapid spread of the scabies mite, immediate diagnosis and treatment are necessary. Normal scabies (scabies vulgaris) and crusted scabies (scabies crustosa, scabies norvegica), although sometimes difficult to diagnose, especially in the elderly, are fortunately quite easy to treat. However, the elderly patient may experience toxicity from local or systemic scabicidal treatment. Single cases of scabies vulgaris should be treated with permethrin cream because of its outstanding efficacy and favourable adverse events profile. Scabies outbreaks and cases of scabies crustosa can easily be managed using combination therapy consisting of topical application of permethrin and two oral doses of ivermectin 200 microg/kg (administered 1 week apart). In addition to treatment of the scabies infestation, preventative measures are necessary, particularly in nursing homes.	1	pesticide
18368539	Degradation and sorption of imidacloprid in dissimilar surface and subsurface soils.	Degradation and sorption/desorption are important processes affecting the leaching of pesticides through soil. This research characterized the degradation and sorption of imidacloprid (1-[(6-chloro-3-pyridinyl)-methyl]-N-nitro-2-imidazolidinimine) in Drummer (silty clay loam) and Exeter (sandy loam) surface soils and their corresponding subsurface soils using sequential extraction methods over 400 days. By the end of the incubation, approximately 55% of imidacloprid applied at a rate of 1.0 mg kg(-1) degraded in the Exeter sandy loam surface and subsurface soils, compared to 40% of applied imidacloprid within 300 days in Drummer surface and subsurface soils. At the 0.1 mg kg(-1) application rate, dissipation was slower for all four soils. Water-extractable imidacloprid in Exeter surface soil decreased from 98% of applied at day 1 to >70% of the imidacloprid remaining after 400 d, as compared to 55% in the Drummer surface soil at day 1 and 12% at day 400. These data suggest that imidacloprid was bioavailable to degrading soil microorganisms and sorption/desorption was not the limiting factor for biodegradation. In subsurface soils > 40% of (14)C-benzoic acid was mineralized over 21 days, demonstrating an active microbial community. In contrast, cumulative (14)CO(2) was less than 1.5% of applied (14)C-imidacloprid in all soils over 400 d. Qualitative differences in the microbial communities appear to limit the degradation of imidacloprid in the subsurface soils.	1	pesticide
18396319	Organochlorine pesticides in ambient air in Durban, South Africa.	Despite the existence of numerous sources and continuing use, information regarding emissions and airborne concentrations of organochlorine pesticides in Africa is extremely limited. This paper presents results of a monitoring program conducted in Durban, South Africa that was designed to characterize levels, trends and possible sources of pesticides in both industrial and residential areas. Three monitoring sites were established, two in an industrialized area in the southern part of the city, and the third in a northern residential area. Particulate and vapor samples were sampled over the 2004-5 period and analyzed by GC/MS to estimate long-term levels of a wide range of pesticides. Based on a year of sampling, the sites had comparable levels of many pesticides with exceptions of alpha-chlordane and lindane. Levels of p,p'-DDT (42+/-27 pg m(-3)) and its derivatives were relatively high and showed an unusual mixture with high levels of p,p'-DDD (12+/-11 pg m(-3)). Other pesticides detected and quantified included aldrin, chlordanes, hexachlorobenzene and dieldrin. Potential source areas, identified using concentration patterns, local and regional gradients, compositional information and trajectory analyses, suggest that chlordane and lindane arise from both local sources as well as regional/global sources; DDT from regional sources elsewhere in South Africa, Africa and India; and most of the other long-lived pesticides detected, including gamma-nonachlor, hexachlorobenzene and toxaphene, from global sources. This monitoring results, which represent the most detailed study to date of pesticides in air in Africa, serve several purposes, including documenting the presence and use of long-banned pesticides like aldrin, aiding the understanding of the fate of persistent compounds, identifying pollutants that may contribute to health problems, and informing decision-making aimed at reducing exposures and risks.	1	pesticide
18396828	Screening preharvest/postharvest strategies to prevent fruit rot decay.	In fruit growing preharvest sprayings in the orchard are mainly applied to protect fruit from decaying. Next to multisite fungicides (captan, thiram, tolylfluanid) the most commonly used products recognized for the Belgium market are Bellis (pyraclostrobin & boscalid) and the combination of Topsin M (thiophanate-methyl) and Frugico (diethofencarb). In general the spraying schedule varies depending on weather conditions (infection risk), preharvest interval of available fungicides, fruitgrower and cultivar of pome fruit (apple/pear). Facing the climatological conditions before picking the residue loading on the fruit surface can differ enormously. Also wet (pre)grading is considered to decrease the product residue resulting to fruits which are less protected before entering the cold storage room. In this context a partially replacement of the preharvest treatments by one postharvest application could offer a reliable alternative to the PPP reduction program (Plant Protection Products) in the orchard. A standardized application method by dipping or drenching will cover the fruits homogenically resulting in a rationalized fungicide use compared to the preharvest sprayings in the orchard. For the Belgium market Philabuster (imazalil & pyrimethanil) is registered for postharvest treatments since for this product a proper solution for the waste water of postharvest uses was developed to protect surface waters (Funds technology). Philabuster provides an advanced mould control towards fruit rot pathogens Gloeosporium spp., Botrytis cinerea and Penicillium spp. In this context several trials were set up to evaluate the biological efficacy of Philabuster alone or in combination with preharvest sprayings in the orchard. In concrete different preharvest spraying schedules were applied in the last six weeks before harvest on apple and pear facing parameters as rational fungicide use, antifungal effectiveness and cost price. The purpose was to select the optimal combination in use of preharvest fungicides with Philabuster as postharvest treatment, which offer full protection towards all key pathogens in apple and pear.	1	pesticide
18405120	Relative susceptibility of some common mosquito vector larvae to synthetic insecticidal compounds in north-western Rajasthan.	Relative susceptibility of three important mosquito vector larvae viz., Anopheles stephensi, Aedes aegypti and Culex quinquefasciatus, prevalent in the arid region was determined against four organophosphates (malathion, fenitrothion, fenthion, temephos) and three synthetic pyrethroid (alphamethrin, deltamethrin and fanvalerate) compounds. Studies were carried out on late 3rd or early 4th instar larvae of these species using standard WHO technique. Based on concentration mortality data LC50 and LC90 values along with their fiducial limits, regression equation, chi-square (chi2)/heterogeneity of the response have been determined by log probit regression analysis. LC50 values as observed for the above seven insecticides were 0.8097, 0.0398. 0.0432, 0.0035, 0.0025, 0.0092, 0.1006; 1.2370, 0.0531, 0.0655, 0.0076, 0.00004, 0.00004, 0.0046 and 1.4980, 0.0719, 0.0817, 0.0056, 0.00021, 0.00073, 0.0112 mg/l for the above three mosquito species respectively Among the four organophosphates tested temephos was the most effective followed by fenitrothion, fenthion and malathion. In general, Anopheles was found more susceptible as compared to the other two culicines to the above four compounds. The results also showed that larvae of Ae. aegypti were most susceptible followed by Cx. quinquefasciatus and An. stephensi to all the three pyrethroids tested. Among the three compounds tested alphamethrin was found to be the most toxic followed by deltamethrin while fanvalerate was the least toxic. The study would be of great importance while planning use of these insecticides for the control of different vector species in this area.	1	pesticide
18406061	Amblyomma variegatum in cattle in Marie Galante, French Antilles: prevalence, control measures, and infection by Ehrlichia ruminantium.	We report Marie Galante as one of the Caribbean islands most heavily infested by the tropical bont tick (TBT) Amblyomma variegatum which is associated with two major diseases of ruminants: heartwater and dermatophilosis. In 2005, a survey was undertaken to assess the prevalence of TBT infestation in cattle, the prevalence of Ehrlichia ruminantium infection in TBTs, and the tick control measures implemented by livestock owners. A random sample of 195 cattle herds out of 1885 recorded on the island was investigated by thoroughly counting adult ticks on each animal and filling a questionnaire. A randomly collected sample of 136 TBTs was tested for infection by E. ruminantium by pCS20 nested PCR. Cattle herd prevalence (hp) was 73.8% for infestation by at least one TBT, 17.9% for infestation by at least one engorged female TBT, and 8.2% for clinical dermatophilosis. Cattle individual prevalence was 42.3% for infestation by at least one TBT, 6.6% for infestation by at least one engorged female TBT, and 2.2% for clinical dermatophilosis. The minimum, maximum and average numbers of TBTs per infested animal were, respectively 1, 108 and 11.5. Prevalence of TBT infection by E. ruminantium was 19.1%. No significant difference in herd prevalence was found among parishes or among ecological zones. For cattle owners treating against ticks (97.9% of all owners), all used aspersion of amitraz and herd prevalence was significantly different among those treating every 1-2-week (hp=69.6%, n=148), and less often than every 2-week (hp=88.6%, n=35) (P=0.031). Of the 42 herd subunits treated less than 4 days before the survey, 27 (64%) were infested with at least one TBT, and 6 (14%) with at least one engorged female TBT. These results indicate a high level of TBT infestation in Marie Galante, the inefficacy of tick treatments currently performed, and the need for an improved tick control strategy. Persisting high levels of infestation in Marie Galante threaten the success of on-going TBT eradication programs in the Caribbean because TBT can spread through migrating birds and trade of animals or of animal hides to other islands and potentially the American continent.	1	pesticide
18409816	[Salivary analyses for biologic monitoring: possibility and perspectives].	The use of saliva for biological monitoring offers several interesting advantages, in terms of cost, non-invasive sampling, no risk of infection and little likelihood of the sample being polluted. Tests for measuring chemicals in saliva are available for many endogenous analytes, and xenobiotics. Saliva tests for inorganic compounds have so far not given satisfactory results, even using highly sensitive methods such as ICP/MS or atomic absorption. However, testing saliva for pesticides holds promise: the close correlation between the plasma compartment and saliva for some of these compounds has led to proposals for assaying diazinon, trichloropyridinol, atrazine, and paraquat, for instance, in saliva as biological indicators of occupational exposure. In industrial settings too significant correlations have been found between blood, urine and saliva assays. Investigations of exposure, for example, to plastifiers (phthalates), methanol, isopropanol and m-xylene have given comparable, equally reliable data, although highly sensitive instrumentation is needed. This approach appears to offer a wide range of applications, and certainly merits further study.	1	pesticide
18415085	Analysis of carbamate pesticides in water samples using single-drop microextraction and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	Single-drop microextraction (SDME) followed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry detection was used for the determination of some carbamate pesticides in water samples. The studied pesticides were thiofanox, carbofuran, pirimicarb, methiocarb, carbaryl, propoxur, desmedipham and phenmedipham. Two alternative sample introduction methods have been examined and compared; SDME followed by cool on-column injection (without derivatization) and SDME followed by in-microvial derivatization and splitless injection. Acetic anhydride was used as derivatization reagent. Parameters that affect the derivatization reaction yield and the extraction efficiency of the SDME method were studied and optimized. The analytical performances and possible applications of both approaches were investigated. Relative standard deviations for the studied compounds ranged from 3.2 to 8.3%. The detection limits obtained by the derivatization method were found to be in the range 3-35 ng/L. Using cool on-column injection (without derivatization), the detection limits were between 30 and 80 ng/L.	1	pesticide
18419200	Occurrence of endocrine-disrupting pesticide residues in wetland sediments from Beijing, China.	Wetlands are important habitats and spawning grounds to a diverse wildlife population and are particularly vulnerable to adverse effects of endocrine disruptors. Many pesticides possess hormonal activity and have thus been classified as endocrine disruptors. A new analytical method based on ultrasonic-assisted extraction, solid-phase extraction, and gas chromatography technologies was developed for analysis of selected potential endocrine-disrupting pesticide residues in wetland sediment samples from northern Beijing, China. The newly developed method was a less time-consuming and less solvent-consuming way of analyzing residues without an air-drying process prior to extraction. The selected pesticides included the compounds hexachlorocyclohexane, cyclodiene, DDTs, chlordane, hexachlorobenzene, heptachlor, endrin aldehyde, heptachlor epoxide, dicofol, acetochlor, alachlor, metolachlor, chlorpyrifos, nitrofen, trifluralin, cypermethrin, fenvalerate, and deltamethrin. Characterization and identification of the selected endocrine-disrupting pesticide residues in sediments may help to assess current pollution status of endocrine-disrupting pesticides in the area. Total concentrations of pesticides ranged from 15.4 to 38.1 ng/g (dry weight) with a mean concentration of 23.7 ng/g (dry weight) for sediment samples. Although levels of all detected pesticides were below the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, USA, sediment quality criteria, considering the potential health effects of endocrine disruptors even in a trace level, the use of the pesticides in the agricultural system should be minimized and regular monitoring is needed in the area.	1	pesticide
18421803	Resistance monitoring in codling moth: a need for standardization.	BACKGROUND: A wide range of methods has been used for monitoring resistance in Cydia pomonella L. However, the results from specific tests are not always concordant and they generate doubts over the extent to which the data represent the field situation. Therefore, the variability in the expression of resistance mechanisms and in resistance ratios between developmental stages and their reliability in a field situation were studied. RESULTS: Neonate larvae showed the highest insecticide resistance, except to spinosad. Resistance ratios were from 2 to 9.5, depending on the insecticide and the strain tested, when compared with the susceptible strain. Spinosad exhibited the highest resistance ratio for diapausing larvae (4.4, 12.2 and 4.4 for Raz, Rdfb and RDelta strains, respectively). Enzymatic ratios were higher in adults than in neonates or diapausing larvae, and the highest enzymatic ratios were observed for mixed-function oxidases (7.3-36.7 for adults of resistant strains). CONCLUSIONS: The sensitivity of different instars depends on the insecticides used, and there is a differential expression of resistance mechanisms between stages. For the population considered in this study, tests on neonates provided the most consistent results to the field situation, but adult response to chlorpyrifos-ethyl and azinphos-methyl in the laboratory was also consistent with the field results.	1	pesticide
18437617	Determination of pesticide residues in IPM and non-IPM samples of mango (Mangifera indica).	Studies were conducted to analyze the residue of commonly used pesticides viz. methyl parathion, chloropyrifos, endosulfan, cypermethrin, fenvalerate, carbendazim, imidacloprid and carbaryl in mango, Dashehari variety, integrated pest management (IPM) and non-IPM samples were collected from the IPM and non-IPM orchards, Lucknow, India. We also present a method for the simultaneous determination of these pesticides in mango samples. Residues of methyl parathion, chloropyriphos, endosulfan, cypermethrin, fenvalerate were extracted from the samples with acetone: cyclohexane: ethyl acetate in the ratio 2:1:1 followed by cleanup using neutral alumina. Analysis was performed by gas chromatography-electron capture detector (GC-ECD) with a megabore column (OV-1). Residues of carbendazim, imidacloprid and carbaryl were extracted with acetone and after cleanup, analysis was performed by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) using photo diode array (PDA) detector. Recoveries of all the pesticides ranged between 72.7-110.6%, at 0.1 and 1.0 microg g(-1) level of fortification. The residues detected in non-IPM samples of mango were found to be below the prescribed limits of maximum residue limit (MRL) while IPM samples were free from pesticide residues.	1	pesticide
18447932	A GIS-based method for household recruitment in a prospective pesticide exposure study.	BACKGROUND: Recent advances in GIS technology and remote sensing have provided new opportunities to collect ecologic data on agricultural pesticide exposure. Many pesticide studies have used historical or records-based data on crops and their associated pesticide applications to estimate exposure by measuring residential proximity to agricultural fields. Very few of these studies collected environmental and biological samples from study participants. One of the reasons for this is the cost of identifying participants who reside near study fields and analyzing samples obtained from them. In this paper, we present a cost-effective, GIS-based method for crop field selection and household recruitment in a prospective pesticide exposure study in a remote location. For the most part, our multi-phased approach was carried out in a research facility, but involved two brief episodes of fieldwork for ground truthing purposes. This method was developed for a larger study designed to examine the validity of indirect pesticide exposure estimates by comparing measured exposures in household dust, water and urine with records-based estimates that use crop location, residential proximity and pesticide application data. The study focused on the pesticide atrazine, a broadleaf herbicide used in corn production and one of the most widely-used pesticides in the U.S. RESULTS: We successfully used a combination of remotely-sensed data, GIS-based methods and fieldwork to select study fields and recruit participants in Illinois, a state with high corn production and heavy atrazine use. Our several-step process consisted of the identification of potential study fields and residential areas using aerial photography; verification of crop patterns and land use via site visits; development of a GIS-based algorithm to define recruitment areas around crop fields; acquisition of geocoded household-level data within each recruitment area from a commercial vendor; and confirmation of final participant household locations via ground truthing. The use of these procedures resulted in a sufficient sample of participants from 14 recruitment areas in seven Illinois counties. CONCLUSION: One of the challenges in pesticide research is the identification and recruitment of study participants, which is time consuming and costly, especially when the study site is in a remote location. We have demonstrated how GIS-based processes can be used to recruit participants, increase efficiency and enhance accuracy. The method that we used ultimately made it possible to collect biological samples from a specific demographic group within strictly defined exposure areas, with little advance knowledge of the location or population.	1	pesticide
18453431	Pesticides in rain in four agricultural watersheds in the United States.	Rainfall samples were collected during the 2003 and 2004 growing seasons at four agricultural locales across the USA in Maryland, Indiana, Nebraska, and California. The samples were analyzed for 21 insecticides, 18 herbicides, three fungicides, and 40 pesticide degradates. Data from all sites combined show that 7 of the 10 most frequently detected pesticides were herbicides, with atrazine (70%) and metolachlor (83%) detected at every site. Dacthal, acetochlor, simazine, alachlor, and pendimethalin were detected in more than 50% of the samples. Chlorpyrifos, carbaryl, and diazinon were the only insecticides among the 10 most frequently detected compounds. Of the remaining pesticide parent compounds, 18 were detected in fewer than 30% of the samples, and 13 were not detected. The most frequently detected degradates were deethylatrazine; the oxygen analogs (OAs) of the organophosphorus insecticides chlorpyrifos, diazinon, and malathion; and 1-napthol (degradate of carbaryl). Deethylatrazine was detected in nearly 70% of the samples collected in Maryland, Indiana, and Nebraska but was detected only once in California. The OAs of chlorpyrifos and diazinon were detected primarily in California. Degradates of the acetanilide herbicides were rarely detected in rain, indicating that they are not formed in the atmosphere or readily volatilized from soils. Herbicides accounted for 91 to 98% of the total pesticide mass deposited by rain except in California, where insecticides accounted for 61% in 2004. The mass of pesticides deposited by rainfall was estimated to be less than 2% of the total applied in these agricultural areas.	1	pesticide
18459384	Predicting economic losses from the continued spread of the Mexican rice borer (Lepidoptera: Crambidae).	The Mexican rice borer, Eoreuma loftini (Dyar) (Lepidoptera: Crambidae), is an invasive species that originated from Mexico, and it is threatening to cause major economic losses to sugarcane, Saccharum spp., and rice, Oryza sativa L., industries in Louisiana. The insect is expected to reach sugarcane and rice production areas in Louisiana by 2008, and infest all of Louisiana sugarcane and rice industries by 2035. When all sugarcane in Louisiana becomes infested, annual yield losses of $220 million would be expected for a cultivar of comparable susceptibility to LCP 85-384 (assuming this cultivar is planted on 100% of the production area). This also assumes the use of the current practice of rainfed production and one application of insecticide, which is presently used by farmers in Louisiana. Irrigation with 30 cm of water is predicted to reduce estimated losses by 29%, whereas four applications of a biorational insecticide such as tebufenozide are expected to reduce the loss in revenue by 53%. The use of the resistant 'HoCP 85-845' would reduce the projected loss in revenue by 24%. Combining all three management tactics on sugarcane, anticipated net loss in revenue would decrease by 66%. The rice industry in Louisiana is projected to suffer from a loss in revenue of $45 million when the entire state is infested. A 77% reduction in loss in revenue is expected with one application of lambda-cyhalothrin. A quarantine on east Texas sugarcane is estimated to save the Louisiana industry between $1.1 billion and $3.2 billion (depending on management) during the time needed for the insect to fully invade the state's sugarcane and rice producing area by natural migration rather than by accidental introduction. The rapid deployment of appropriate management tactics will have a key role in reducing the anticipated economic impact of E. loftini once it becomes a pest in Louisiana sugarcane and rice.	1	pesticide
18459415	Characterization of a novel high-activity esterase in Tunisian populations of the mosquito Culex pipiens.	AIn the mosquito Culex pipiens (L.) (Diptera: Culicidae) esterases contribute to insecticide resistance by their increased activity. These esterases display a heterogeneous geographical distribution, particularly in Tunisia, where they are very diverse. In this study, we extended the characterization of a highly active esterase first detected in 1996: B12. Esterase B12 displayed the fastest electrophoretic mobility of all the previously described highly active esterases. We showed that it was encoded by the Ester(B12) allele at the Ester locus, and we isolated a strain, TunB12, homozygous for this allele. TunB12 displayed a low (approximately two- to three-fold) but significant resistance to the organophosphates temephos and chlorpyrifos, and to the pyrethroid permethrin. Only temephos resistance was synergized by S,S,S-tributyl-phosphorotrithioate. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction revealed that the Ester(B12) allele was not amplified in TunB12 strain, indicating that B12 high activity could be due to a gene up-regulation mechanism. Ester(B12) allele frequencies also were estimated in 20 Tunisian populations collected in 2005. Analyses revealed a large distribution of this allele all over the country. Finally, sequences of Ester(B12) were acquired and genetic distance trees were constructed with the resistance Ester alleles already published, providing indications about allele's origins. The diverse array of highly active esterases in C. pipiens from Tunisia and the possible scenario of the origin of their coding alleles are discussed in the context of their possible evolution.	1	pesticide
18468882	Development of a bifunctional sensor using haptenized acetylcholinesterase and application for the detection of cocaine and organophosphates.	We developed a dual piezoelectric/amperometric sensor for the detection of two unrelated analytes in one experiment that uses propidium to anchor acetylcholinesterases (AChE) at the surface. This mass-sensitive sensor does not only allow the examination of the interaction between AChE and the modified surface but also the detection of in situ inhibition of the surface-bound AChE. Here we describe the application of the propidium-based sensor in combination with a modified AChE. For this reason the cocaine derivative benzoylecgonine (BZE) was coupled via a 10A long hydrophilic linker - 1,8-diamino-3,4-dioxaoctane - to carboxylic groups of the AChE after EDC/NHS activation. Thus the modified AChE (BZE-AChE) possesses an additional recognition element besides the inhibitor binding site. After the deposition of BZE-AChE on the sensor surface the binding of an anti-BZE-antibody to the BZE-AChE can be monitored. This makes it possible to determine two analytes - cocaine and organophosphate - in one experiment by measuring antibody binding and decrease in enzymatic activity, respectively. Furthermore it was also shown that other cocaine-binding enzymes, e.g., butyrylcholinesterase, can bind to the modified BZE-AChE. The competitive immunoassay allowed the detection of cocaine with a dynamic range from 10(-9) to 10(-7)M. The organophosphate chlorpyrifos-oxon could be detected in concentrations from 10(-6) down to 10(-8)M after 20 min of injection time (equals to 500 microL sample volume.	1	pesticide
18473109	Dissipation and residue of S-metolachlor in maize and soil.	The purpose of this article was to establish a simple residue analysis method for S-metolachlor in maize and to study its dissipation and residue in maize field eco-system. The results showed that S-metolachlor declined rapidly in maize seedling and soil after application. The half-lives of S-metolachlor in maize seedlings in Beijing and Changchun were 6.68 and 4.85 days, respectively, and in soil were 12.81 and 14.81 days, respectively. The terminal residues of S-metolachlor in soil samples were very low (around 0.005-0.045 mg/kg), and the residues in maize seeds were not detectable. The use of S-metolachlor according to the recommended dosages in maize could be considered safe.	1	pesticide
18476213	Insecticidal Effects of Organotin(IV) Compounds on Plutella Xylostella (L.) Larvae. II. Inhibitory Potencies Against Acetylcholinesterase and Evidence for Synergism in Tests With Bacillus Thuringiensis(BER.) and Malathion.	Features of pesticide synergism and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition (in vitro) were studied using a selected range of organotin compounds against the early 4th instar larvae of a highly resistant strain of the diamondback moth (DBM), Plutella xylostella, a major universal pest of cruciferous vegetables.Fourteen triorganotin compounds were evaluated for their ability to enhance the toxicity of the microbial insecticide, Bacillus thuringiensis (BT) and of the commercial insecticide, Malathion to Plutella xylostella larvae. Supplemental synergism was observed with triphenyl- and tricyclopentyltin hydroxides in combinations with Bacillus thuringiensis. Increased synergism was observed with an increase in the number of cyclopentyl groups on tin in the mixed series, Cyp(n) Ph(3-n) SnX, where X = OH, and 1-(1,2,4-triazolyl). The combination of (p-chlorophenyl)diphenyltin N,N-dimethyldithiocarbamate at LD(10) and LD(25) concentrations with sublethal concentrations of Malathion as well as of tricyclohexyltin methanesulphonate at the 0.01% (w/v) concentration with Malathion exerted strong synergistic effects (supplemental synergism) with toxicity index (T.I) values of 7.2, 19.8 and 10.1, respectively.Studies on the in vitro inhibition of acetylcholinesterase prepared from the DBM larvae showed that while most of the triorganotin Compounds tested were without effect on the enzyme, compounds containing the thiocarbamylacetate or the dithiocarbamylacetate moieties demonstrated appreciable levels of inhibition, being comparable in efficacy to commercial grades of Malathion and Methomyl.	1	pesticide
18477694	Atomic interactions of neonicotinoid agonists with AChBP: molecular recognition of the distinctive electronegative pharmacophore.	Acetylcholine-binding proteins (AChBPs) from mollusks are suitable structural and functional surrogates of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors when combined with transmembrane spans of the nicotinic receptor. These proteins assemble as a pentamer with identical ACh binding sites at the subunit interfaces and show ligand specificities resembling those of the nicotinic receptor for agonists and antagonists. A subset of ligands, termed the neonicotinoids, exhibit specificity for insect nicotinic receptors and selective toxicity as insecticides. AChBPs are of neither mammalian nor insect origin and exhibit a distinctive pattern of selectivity for the neonicotinoid ligands. We define here the binding orientation and determinants of differential molecular recognition for the neonicotinoids and classical nicotinoids by estimates of kinetic and equilibrium binding parameters and crystallographic analysis. Neonicotinoid complex formation is rapid and accompanied by quenching of the AChBP tryptophan fluorescence. Comparisons of the neonicotinoids imidacloprid and thiacloprid in the binding site from Aplysia californica AChBP at 2.48 and 1.94 A in resolution reveal a single conformation of the bound ligands with four of the five sites occupied in the pentameric crystal structure. The neonicotinoid electronegative pharmacophore is nestled in an inverted direction compared with the nicotinoid cationic functionality at the subunit interfacial binding pocket. Characteristic of several agonists, loop C largely envelops the ligand, positioning aromatic side chains to interact optimally with conjugated and hydrophobic regions of the neonicotinoid. This template defines the association of interacting amino acids and their energetic contributions to the distinctive interactions of neonicotinoids.	1	pesticide
18492601	Results of a 13-week safety assurance study with rats fed grain from corn rootworm-protected, glyphosate-tolerant MON 88017 corn.	Presented are the results of a 13-week rat feeding study with grain from MON 88017 corn (brand name YieldGard VT Rootworm/RR2), protected from feeding damage caused by corn rootworm and tolerant to glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup agricultural herbicides. Corn rootworm protection is accomplished through the introduction of cryBb1 coding sequence from Bacillus thuringiensis into the corn genome for in planta production of a bioactive form of Cry3Bb1 protein. Also included in the genome is the coding sequence for the CP4 EPSPS protein from Agrobacterium sp. strain CP4 that confers glyphosate herbicidal tolerance. MON 88017 was formulated into rodent diets at 11 or 33% (w/w) levels with its near isogenic control at a level of 33% (w/w). Additionally, six diets containing grain from different conventional (non-biotechnology-derived), reference hybrids were formulated, each at 33% (w/w) levels of one of six reference grains. All diets were nutritionally balanced and conformed to PMI specifications for Certified LabDiet 5002 (PMI Certified LabDiet 5002 is a registered trademark of Purina Mills, Inc.). The responses of rats fed diets containing MON 88017 were comparable to those of rats fed a diet containing grain from its near isogenic control. This study complements extensive agronomic, compositional, and farm animal feeding studies with MON 88017 grain, confirming that it is as safe and nutritious as grain from existing commercial corn hybrids.	1	pesticide
18498082	Seasonal biology and management of the maple shoot borer, Proteoteras aesculana (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae), in production nurseries.	BACKGROUND: Proteoteras aesculana (Riley), a caterpillar that causes tip dieback and kills the central leader of maples, is an important nursery pest. The authors sought to develop a pheromone lure, use it to clarify the pest's seasonal biology, determine when and where infestations originate and extend the management window. RESULTS: Gas chromatography, electroantennographic detection and trapping showed that (Z)-dodec-8-en-1-ol (Z8-12:OH) is the major sex pheromone component. Flight began in March, peaking in early spring. Larvae developed during April and May, giving rise to moths active in late May and June. No additional larvae were found in maples following that flight. Sporadic moth captures occurred into November, suggesting that adults overwinter. Three parasitoid species, all new host records, were documented. A different tortricid, Episimus tyrius Heinrich, caused leaf-tying damage in late summer. Maples shipped from Oregon were free of shoot borers, refuting speculation that larvae overwinter in buds. One bifenthrin spray applied from just before bud break at onset of moth flight to just after peak flight when shoots had two pairs of leaves reduced infestation by 96-100%. CONCLUSION: Maples are infested soon after planting in Kentucky nurseries via eggs laid in early spring. The temporal window for preventive control is broader than previously thought.	1	pesticide
18499319	Spray drift of pesticides and stream macroinvertebrates: experimental evidence of impacts and effectiveness of mitigation measures.	Impoverished stream communities in agricultural landscapes have been associated with pesticide contamination, but conclusive evidence of causality is rare. We address this deficiency by adopting an experimental approach to investigate the effects of the insecticides cypermethrin and chlorpyrifos on benthic macroinvertebrates. Three treatments were established and a combination of biomarker, bioassay and biomonitoring approaches was employed to investigate, individual, population and community-level effects. Animals deployed during pesticide application had altered enzyme activity, depressed feeding rate and reduced survival, but these effects were only observed where pesticide was sprayed to the stream edge. There were no clear pesticide-related effects on macroinvertebrate community structure or on the population densities of individual species. Hence, short-term pesticide exposure did cause individual-level effects in stream macroinvertebrates, but these were not translated to effects at the population or community-level and were effectively mitigated by the adoption of a no-spray buffer zone.	1	pesticide
18502319	Targeting of neurotrophic factors, their receptors, and signaling pathways in the developmental neurotoxicity of organophosphates in vivo and in vitro.	Neurotrophic factors control neural cell differentiation and assembly of neural circuits. We previously showed that organophosphate pesticides differentially regulate members of the fibroblast growth factor (fgf) gene family. We administered chlorpyrifos and diazinon to neonatal rats on postnatal days 1-4 at doses devoid of systemic toxicity or growth impairment, and spanning the threshold for barely-detectable cholinesterase inhibition. We evaluated the impact on gene families for different classes of neurotrophic factors. Using microarrays, we examined the regional expression of mRNAs encoding the neurotrophins (ntfs), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf), nerve growth factor (ngf), the wnt and fzd gene families and the corresponding receptors. Chlorpyrifos and diazinon both had widespread effects on the fgf, ntf, wnt and fzd families but much less on the bdnf and ngf groups. However, the two organophosphates showed disparate effects on a number of key neurotrophic factors. To determine if the actions were mediated directly on differentiating neurons, we tested chlorpyrifos in PC12 cells, an in vitro model of neural cell development. Effects in PC12 cells mirrored many of those for members of the fgf, ntf and wnt families, as well as the receptors for the ntfs, especially during early differentiation, the stage known to be most susceptible to disruption by organophosphates. Our results suggest that actions on neurotrophic factors provide a mechanism for the developmental neurotoxicity of low doses of organophosphates, and, since effects on expression of the affected genes differed with test agent, may help explain regional disparities in effects and critical periods of vulnerability.	1	pesticide
18533435	Differential patterns of insecticide resistance in eggs and first instars of Triatoma infestans (Hemiptera: Reduviidae) from Argentina and Bolivia.	Previous work at our laboratory has indicated high resistance levels to deltamethrin correlated with failures of chemical control in field populations of Triatoma infestans (Klug, 1834) (Hemiptera: Reduviidae) in northern Argentina and southern Bolivia. The aim of the present work was to study the resistance patterns in eggs and first instars of T. infestans in populations from Argentina and Bolivia. At the egg stage, a population from Salvador Mazza, Argentina, showed the highest resistance ratio to deltamethrin and lambda-cyhalothrin, and it was susceptible to fipronil and fenitrothion. A population from Mataral, Bolivia, showed very low resistance ratios to deltamethrin and lambda-cyhalothrin, and it was susceptible to fipronil and fenitrothion. A Sucre population was susceptible to deltamethrin and fenitrothion, and it showed very low resistant ratios to lambdacyhalothrin and fipronil. A Yacuiba population was susceptible to deltamethrin. At the first instar, the Salvador Mazza population was susceptible to fipronil, whereas the Mataral and Sucre populations were susceptible to fenitrothion, and they showed very low resistance ratios to lambda-cyhalothrin but the high resistance to fipronil. The Salvador Mazza population was resistant to deltamethrin at the larval stage. Remarkable differences were found in the resistance profile to fipronil in first instars and eggs from Sucre and Mataral. These indicated that the expression of insecticide resistance in eggs varies between populations and that the pyrethroid resistance diagnosed in T. infestans first instars is not indicative of resistance in the egg stage.	1	pesticide
18534311	Fatal intoxication with imidacloprid insecticide.	Imidacloprid [1-(6-chloro-3-pyridylmethyl)-N-nitroimidazolidin-2-ylideneamine, CAS 138261-41-3] belongs to a relatively new class of insecticidal chemistry, the chloronicotinyl neonicotinoid compounds. Animal studies indicate relatively low toxicity to mammals. Despite wide usage in some countries, the understanding of human poisoning is quite limited. Here we report a fatal case of rapid ingestion of an insecticide formulation containing imidacloprid. Clinical manifestation included severe vomiting, hypertension, tachycardia, mydriasis with sluggish reaction to light, and loss of consciousness. In the course of toxicity, the patient manifested bradycardia, bradypnea, and cardiopulmonary arrest and death. Because moderate- to high-dose imidacloprid in animals causes central nervous system activation similar to nicotine, including tremors, impaired papillary function, and hypothermia, it is more likely that the formulation ingredients caused most of the clinical symptoms including central nervous system depression and gastrointestinal irritation.	1	pesticide
18538810	Developmentally-regulated sodium channel subunits are differentially sensitive to alpha-cyano containing pyrethroids.	Juvenile rats have been reported to be more sensitive to the acute neurotoxic effects of the pyrethroid deltamethrin than adults. While toxicokinetic differences between juveniles and adults are documented, toxicodynamic differences have not been examined. Voltage-gated sodium channels, the primary targets of pyrethroids, are comprised of alpha and beta subunits, each of which have multiple isoforms that are expressed in a developmentally-regulated manner. To begin to test whether toxicodynamic differences could contribute to age-dependent deltamethrin toxicity, deltamethrin effects were examined on sodium currents in Xenopus laevis oocytes injected with different combinations of rat alpha (Na(v)1.2 or Na(v)1.3) and beta (beta(1) or beta(3)) subunits. Deltamethrin induced tail currents in all isoform combinations and increased the percent of modified channels in a concentration-dependent manner. Effects of deltamethrin were dependent on subunit combination; Na(v)1.3-containing channels were modified to a greater extent than were Na(v)1.2-containing channels. In the presence of a beta subunit, deltamethrin effects were significantly greater, an effect most pronounced for Na(v)1.3 channels; Na(v)1.3/beta(3) channels were more sensitive to deltamethrin than Na(v)1.2/beta(1) channels. Na(v)1.3/beta(3) channels are expressed embryonically, while the Na(v)1.2 and beta(1) subunits predominate in adults, supporting the hypothesis for age-dependent toxicodynamic differences. Structure-activity relationships for sensitivity of these subunit combinations were examined for other pyrethroids. Permethrin and tetramethrin did not modify currents mediated by either subunit combination. Cypermethrin, beta-cyfluthrin, esfenvalerate and fenpropathrin all modified sodium channel function; effects were significantly greater on Na(v)1.3/beta(3) than on Na(v)1.2/beta(1) channels. These data demonstrate a greater sensitivity of Na(v)1.3 vs Na(v)1.2 channels to deltamethrin and other cyano-containing pyrethroids, particularly in the presence of a beta subunit.	1	pesticide
18539374	Electrochemical analysis of trifluralin using a nanostructuring electrode with multi-walled carbon nanotubes.	The electroanalytical behaviors of the endocrine-disrupting chemical trifluralin have been studied at a nanostructuring electrode. The nanostructuring electrode was fabricated by coating a uniform multi-wall carbon nanotubes/dihexadecyl hydrogen phosphate (MWNTs/DHP) film on glassy carbon electrode (GCE). The reduction peak currents of trifluralin increased remarkably and the reduction peak potential shifted positively at the nanostructuring electrode, compared with that at a bare GCE. The results showed that this nanostructuring electrode exhibited excellent enhancement effects on the electrochemical reduction of trifluralin. Consequently, a simple and sensitive electroanalytical method was developed for the determination of trifluralin. Under optimal conditions, a linear response of trifluralin was obtained in the range from 5.0 x 10(-9) to 6.0 x 10(-6) mol L(-1) (r=0.998) and with a limit of detect (LOD) of 2.0 x 10(-9) mol L(-1). The proposed procedure was successfully applied to determine trifluralin in soil samples with satisfactory results.	1	pesticide
18595656	Sperm chromatin alteration and DNA damage by methyl-parathion, chlorpyrifos and diazinon and their oxon metabolites in human spermatozoa.	Extensive use of organophosphorous pesticides (OP) by young men represents a public health problem. Toxicity of OP mainly results in neurotoxicity due to their oxygen analogues (oxons), formed during the OP oxidative activation. OP alter semen quality and sperm chromatin and DNA at different stages of spermatogenesis. Oxons are more toxic than the parent compounds; however, their toxicity to spermatogenic cells has not been reported. We evaluated sperm DNA damage by several OP compounds and their oxons in human spermatozoa from healthy volunteers incubated with 50-750 microM of methyl-parathion (MePA), methyl-paraoxon (MePO), chlorpyrifos (CPF), chlorpyrifos-oxon (CPO), diazinon (DZN) or diazoxon (DZO). All concentrations were not cytotoxic (evaluated by eosin-Y exclusion), except 750 microM MePO. Oxons were 15% to 10 times more toxic to sperm DNA (evaluated by the SCSA parameter, %DFI) than their corresponding parent compounds, at the following order: MePO>CPO=MePA>CPF>DZO>DZN, suggesting that oxon metabolites participate in OP sperm genotoxicity.	1	pesticide
18602133	Simultaneous determination of chlorothalonil and its metabolite 4-hydroxychlorothalonil in greenhouse air: dissipation process of chlorothalonil.	An analytical method was developed and tested for the simultaneous determination of chlorothalonil and its main metabolite 4-hydroxychlorothalonil, in airborne samples. High performance liquid chromatography equipped with Ultra-violet detector was used to separate and quantify the analytes. Glass microfibre filters for the collection of the analytes' particles were tested. Solid sorbents, such as Tenax, Florisil, XAD-2 and silica gel, were studied to find out the most suitable material for the collection of the analytes in the gas phase. The results have shown that only chlorothalonil was trapped in the vapor phase with highest results obtained when silica gel was the sorbent of choice. Linearity was demonstrated in a wide concentration range 0.01-10.00 mg L(-1). Recoveries from spiked glass microfibre filters and silica gel cartridges for chlorothalonil and 4-hydroxychlorothalonil were almost quantitative. The quantification limits were calculated to be 8.4 and 19.6 ng m(-3) in air for chlorothalonil and 4-hydroxychlorothalonil, respectively. The two analytes spiked on the GF/A filters and silica gel cartridges were proven to be stable for more than 15 days, at 4degrees C and ambient temperature. The applicability of the present method was demonstrated by the analysis of the chlorothalonil and its metabolite in greenhouse air.	1	pesticide
18613579	Lethal and sublethal effects of imidacloprid on Osmia lignaria and clothianidin on Megachile rotundata (Hymenoptera: Megachilidae).	We examined lethal and sublethal effects of imidacloprid on Osmia lignaria (Cresson) and clothianidin on Megachile rotundata (F.) (Hymenoptera: Megachilidae). We also made progress toward developing reliable methodology for testing pesticides on wild bees for use in pesticide registration by using field and laboratory experiments. Bee larvae were exposed to control, low (3 or 6 ppb), intermediate (30 ppb), or high (300 ppb) doses of either imidacloprid or clothianidin in pollen. Field experiments on both bee species involved injecting the pollen provisions with the corresponding pesticide. Only O. lignaria was used for the laboratory experiments, which entailed both injecting the bee's own pollen provisions and replacing the pollen provision with a preblended pollen mixture containing imidacloprid. Larval development, emergence, weight, and mortality were monitored and analyzed. There were no lethal effects found for either imidacloprid or clothianidin on O. lignaria and M. rotundata. Minor sublethal effects were detected on larval development for O. lignaria, with greater developmental time at the intermediate (30 ppb) and high doses (300 ppb) of imidacloprid. No similar sublethal effects were found with clothianidin on M. rotundata. We were successful in creating methodology for pesticide testing on O. lignaria and M. rotundata; however, these methods can be improved upon to create a more robust test. We also identified several parameters and developmental stages for observing sublethal effects. The detection of sublethal effects demonstrates the importance of testing new pesticides on wild pollinators before registration.	1	pesticide
18613610	Evaluation of different insecticides and fabric types for development of treated targets for stable fly (Diptera: Muscidae) control.	Stable fly, Stomoxys calcitrans (L.) (Diptera: Muscidae), once only a pest of pastured cattle, has become a serious pest of range cattle in the United States. Because of the difficulties associated with stable fly management under range conditions, a pesticide-impregnated cloth target is being developed as a management tool. We conducted studies to determine the influence of weather, time, fabric type, insecticide type, and insecticide concentration on the mortality of stable flies from a susceptible laboratory colony exposed for 30 s to treated cloth targets. We found that 100% of the flies exposed to trigger (Trigger-Royal Box, 65% polyester and 35% cotton) fabric targets that were treated with 0.1% h-cyhalothrin or 0.1% zeta-cypermethrin and weathered outdoors in Gainesville, FL., for up to 3 mo, were dead within 20 min after a 30-s exposure. The results of this study support the concept that treated targets can be developed for integration into stable fly control programs.	1	pesticide
18613741	Effects of malathion on embryonic development and latent susceptibility to trematode parasites in ranid tadpoles.	We investigated the effects of embryonic exposure to the widely used organophosphate malathion (15-600 micro/L) on the early development and latent susceptibility of pickerel frog (Rana palustris) tadpoles to the trematode parasite Echinostoma trivolvis. The latent effects of contaminant exposure are rarely examined but could have important implications for individual survival and population viability. Malathion decreased hatching success by 6.5% and viability rates by 17% at 600 microg/L, which is a lower concentration than previously documented for anuran embryos. Incidence of malformations increased from 0.5% in controls to 11.2% in the 600-microg/L malathion treatment. The primary malformations documented in the two highest pesticide concentrations were ventralization and axial shortening. After seven weeks of development in water with no malathion, tadpoles previously exposed as embryos for only 96 h to 60 and 600 microg/L malathion suffered increased parasite encystment rates when compared to controls. Our research identifies embryonic development as a sensitive window for establishing latent susceptibility to infection in later developmental stages.	1	pesticide
18616265	Design, synthesis, and fungicidal activity of macrolactones and macrolactams with a sulfonamide side chain.	Four series of novel macrolactones and macrolactams12-alkylsulfonamido-1,15-pentadecanlactones ( 5), 12-alkylsulfonamido-15-methyl-1,15-pentadecanlactones ( 6), 12-alkylsulfonamido-1,15-pentadecanlactams ( 7), and N-(alkylsulfonamidoethyl)-1,12-dodecanlactams ( 8)were designed and synthesized from readily available 2-nitrocyclododecanone or cyclododecanone. Their structures were confirmed by (1)H NMR, IR, and elemental analysis. The bioassay showed that these compounds displayed fair to excellent fungicidal activity against Rhizoctonia solani Kuhn and have a gradual increase of fungicidal activity in the order of 6, 7, 8, and 5. Among them, compounds 5a, 5b, and 5c displayed excellent fungicidal activity against R. solani comparable with the commercial fungicide carbendazim. Above results illustrated that the rule on the relationship between the activity and hydrogen-bonding, namely the macrocyclic compounds with a hydrogen-bonding acceptor and a hydrogen-bonding donor on the ring and having a three methylenes distance between two polarizable groups have the best fungicidal activity against R. solani, has a general suitability to the macrocyclic compounds, and pesticide molecules may combine with a target enzyme by hydrogen-bonding. The facts, which compound 6 has a much lower fungicidal activity against R. solani than compound 5 but their difference in chemical structure is only that there is a methyl group on the C15 for compound 6 and none but hydrogen atom on the C15 for compound 5, indicated that a methyl group plays an inhibitory role to the fungicidal activity. It suggests that the existence of a methyl group with a great volume between two polarizable groups would interfere in the interaction of pesticide molecules and the target enzyme.	1	pesticide
18619735	Flea blood feeding patterns in cats treated with oral nitenpyram and the topical insecticides imidacloprid, fipronil and selamectin.	A series of studies was conducted to determine the effect of systemically and topically active insecticides on blood consumption by fleas (Ctenocephalides felis). Infestations were conducted by placing fleas into plexi-glass chambers attached to the lateral rib cage of domestic short-hair cats. After pre-defined periods, fleas and flea feces were extracted using vacuum aspiration and spectrophotometrically analyzed for hemoglobin using Drabkin's reagent. To determine how rapidly nitenpyram kills actively feeding fleas, a single oral treatment was administered 24h after infestation. To determine the effect of nitenpyram on blood consumption of newly acquired fleas, cats were infested with fleas 1h post-treatment and fleas and flea feces from both studies were extracted at 15, 30, 60, 120, 240 and 480min post-treatment or post-infestation. To compare the effects of topically versus systemically active insecticides, 20 cats each with 2 chambers attached, were randomly allocated among groups and were infested with fleas 1h after each of 4 nitenpyram treatments, or at 7, 14, 21 and 28 days after a single application of commercial spot-on formulations of fipronil, imidacloprid or selamectin. Infestations were also completed for untreated (control) cats. Twenty-four hours after infestation, fleas and flea feces were removed for host blood quantification. If at any time, flea blood consumption in a treated group did not significantly differ from that of fleas infesting controls, that treatment group was withdrawn from the study. Nitenpyram effects on actively feeding fleas were first observed at 60min post-dosing when 38% of fleas were dead or moribund, and at 240min 100% were dead or moribund. Nitenpyram produced a significant reduction in flea blood consumption (p<0.05), which appeared to cease 15min after infestation. For the treatment comparisons, significantly more (p<0.05) blood was consumed by fleas taken from imidacloprid and fipronil-treated cats than from the nitenpyram or selamectin groups. Only on nitenpyram- or selamectin-treated cats were there significant reductions (p<0.05) in flea blood consumption on days 21 and 28, with significant difference (p>0.05) between these two groups on day 28. In this study systemically acting insecticides such as nitenpyram, and the topically applied but systemically active insecticide selamectin, were more effective in interfering with flea blood feeding than were imidacloprid and fipronil.	1	pesticide
18621412	Pesticides in fluvial wetlands catchments under intensive agricultural activities.	A survey on pesticides (73 compounds) in the Bay St. François wetland and its catchment (part of the wetlands of Lake St. Pierre area [St. Lawrence River, Québec]) was achieved in 2006. The metabolites as well as the active ingredients of pesticides (11 compounds) were detected in the wetland and its catchment. This wetland ecosystem was active in the degradation of agricultural pesticides (e.g., atrazine). The measured pesticides were individually below the criteria for aquatic species in natural water, except chlorpyrifos. Overall, the pesticides lost from agricultural field towards the streams were <1% of the quantity applied. The environmental fates of the pesticides were found to vary according to the size of the watershed. Over large catchments, half-life times were important in terms of global loss from the agricultural lands to wetlands whereas over small catchments, soil organic carbon/water distribution coefficient (Koc) was an important term for pesticides losses to water system since half-life times were not limiting factors.	1	pesticide
18651916	Role of a serine residue (S278) in the pore-facing region of the housefly L-glutamate-gated chloride channel in determining sensitivity to noncompetitive antagonists.	Gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (gamma-HCH), fipronil and picrotoxinin are noncompetitive antagonists (NCAs) of L-glutamate-gated chloride channels (GluCls), yet their potencies are weaker than those on gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors (GABARs). The A302S mutation of Drosophila RDL (resistant to dieldrin) GABAR confers NCA resistance, and housefly GluCls (MdGluCls) possess S278 as the residue corresponding to the A302. Thus, the effects of S278A mutation on the NCA actions on MdGluCls were investigated. The S278A mutation resulted in enhanced blocking by NCAs of the MdGluCl response to 30 microM L-glutamate. However, such actions of gamma-HCH and picrotoxinin, but not of fipronil, on the S278A mutant were reduced with 200 microM L-glutamate. Further increases in the L-glutamate concentration led to potentiation by NCAs of the mutant response to L-glutamate.	1	pesticide
18656684	Application of bamboo charcoal as solid-phase extraction adsorbent for the determination of atrazine and simazine in environmental water samples by high-performance liquid chromatography-ultraviolet detector.	In this article, a new method for the determination of triazine herbicides atrazine and simazine in environment aqueous samples was developed. It was based on solid-phase extraction (SPE) using bamboo charcoal as adsorbent and high-performance liquid chromatography-ultraviolet detector (HPLC-UV) for the enrichment and determination of atrazine and simazine at trace level. Related important factors influencing the extraction efficiency, such as the kind of eluent and its volume, flow rate of the sample, pH of the sample, and volume of the sample, were investigated and optimized in detail. Under the optimal conditions, the experimental results showed that excellent linearity was obtained over the range of 0.5-30 microg L(-1) with correlation coefficients 0.9991 and 0.9982, for atrazine and simazine, respectively; and the relative standard deviations of two analytes were 8.3, 8.7%, respectively. The proposed method was successfully applied to the analysis of tap water and well water samples. And satisfactory spiked recoveries were obtained in the range of 75.2-107.1%. The above results indicated that the developed method was an excellent alternative for the routine analysis in environmental field.	1	pesticide
18666535	Residual effectiveness of three pyrethroids on vegetation against adult Aedes albopictus and Culex quinquefasciatus in screened field cages.	The residual effectiveness of pyrethroid-treated vegetation as a barrier against female host-seeking Aedes albopictus and Culex quinquefasciatus was evaluated in large screened-cage field tests for 12 wk. Individual potted southern wax myrtle (Myrica cerifera L.) plants were treated with either beta-cyfluthrin (Tempo SC Ultra), lambda-cyhalothrin (Demand CS), or tau-fluvalinate (Mavrik Perimeter) at maximum label rates. Suction mosquito traps (MMX) baited with carbon dioxide placed near plants treated with tau-fluvalinate provided significant overall reduction (approximately 62-80%) of mosquitoes through 2 wk compared with untreated plants. Overall percent knockdown/mortality from excised-leaf bioassays was similar to suction-trap reduction data. However, knockdown/mortality in leaf bioassays was greater for Ae. albopictus than for Cx. quinquefasciatus, whereas no such effect was observed in trap collections. Mosquito abundance in MMX collections near plants treated with beta-cyfluthrin provided similar levels of reduction as tau-fluvalinate-treated plants through 1 wk and 3-4 wk after treatment. Leaf toxicity generally provided approximately > 90% knockdown/mortality on beta-cyfluthrin treated leaves throughout the study. Generally, no consistent difference in trap reduction or weekly knockdown/mortality in leaf bioassays was observed between either mosquito species. Plants treated with lambda-cyhalothrin provided significantly greater overall reduction of mosquitoes (75-83%) from MMX collections for the first 5 wk compared with untreated plants. Knockdown/mortality levels and duration of leaf toxicity from lambda-cyhalothrin- treated leaves was similar to that of beta-cyfluthrin, with no consistent differences between mosquito species.	1	pesticide
18705367	Disruption of a belowground mutualism alters interactions between plants and their floral visitors.	Plants engage in diverse and intimate interactions with unrelated taxa. For example, aboveground floral visitors provide pollination services, while belowground arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) enhance nutrient capture. Traditionally in ecology, these processes were studied in isolation, reinforcing the prevailing assumption that these above- and belowground processes were also functionally distinct. More recently, there has been a growing realization that the soil surface is not a barrier to many ecological interactions, particularly those involving plants (who live simultaneously above and below ground). Because of the potentially large impact that mycorrhizae and floral visitors can have on plant performance and community dynamics, we designed an experiment to test whether these multi-species mutualisms were interdependent under field conditions. Using benomyl, a widely used fungicide, we suppressed AMF in a native grassland, measuring plant, fungal, and floral-visitor responses after three years of fungal suppression. AMF suppression caused a shift in the community of floral visitors from large-bodied bees to small-bodied bees and flies, and reduced the total number of floral visits per flowering stem 67% across the 23 flowering species found in the plots. Fungal suppression has species-specific effects on floral visits for the six most common flowering plants in this experiment. Exploratory analyses suggest these results were due to changes in floral-visitor behavior due to altered patch-level floral display, rather than through direct effects of AMF suppression on floral morphology. Our findings indicate that AMF are an important, and overlooked, driver of floral-visitor community structure with the potential to affect pollination services. These results support the growing body of research indicating that interactions among ecological interactions can be of meaningful effect size under natural field conditions and may influence individual performance, population dynamics, and community structure.	1	pesticide
18759101	Simple and rapid method for the determination of ethylenebisdithiocarbamate fungicides in fruits and vegetables using liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry.	A simple and rapid method for determining ethylenebisdithiocarbamates (EBDCs; mancozeb, maneb, and zineb) in fruits and vegetables is described. EBDCs are transformed into dimethylethylenebisdithiocarbamate (EBDC-dimethyl) by methylation after their decomposition with ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA). These processes were performed simultaneously in this method. Dimethyl sulfate was used as the methylation reagent, and acetonitrile extracts obtained from partitioning with anhydrous magnesium sulfate and sodium chloride were subjected to dispersive solid-phase extraction with the primary secondary amine sorbent. Liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry in the positive heated-electrospray ionization mode was used for the determination of EBDC-dimethyl produced from EBDCs. The method was validated at levels of 10, 50, and 100 ng g(-1) maneb as a representative EBDC. The recoveries of the present method were between 71 and 101%. The limits of detection and quantification were 0.24 and 0.8 ng g(-1) maneb, respectively.	1	pesticide
18767724	Drench treatments for management of larval Japanese beetle (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) in field-grown balled and burlapped nursery plants.	Insecticide drenches were applied to postharvest field-grown nursery plants harvested as 60-cm-diameter balled and burlapped (B&B) root balls for controlling third instars of Japanese beetle, Popillia japonica Newman (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae). Bifenthrin, chlorpyrifos, lambda-cyhalothrin, and thiamethoxam were drench-applied in fall and spring tests at volumes of runoff (1X; approximately equal 2.57 liters per drench per root ball) or twice runoff (2X). Tests also examined consecutive drenches (two, four, or six) and B&B rotation between drenches. Fall-applied drenches did not meet the Domestic Japanese Beetle Harmonization Plan (DJHP) standards of < or =1 grub and ranged from 0 to 90% control. However, most fall-applied drenches significantly reduced grub numbers relative to the untreated root balls. Spring-applied drenches were more effective than fall drenches: chlorpyrifos treatments gave 94-100% control, whereas other spring-applied treatments were less consistent, including thiamethoxam (83-100% control) and bifenthrin (61-100% control). Lambda-cyhalothrin was not effective. A higher drench volume (2X) did not significantly improve treatment efficacy; however, grub numbers decreased as the number of drenches increased for fall-applied chlorpyrifos and thiamethoxam and spring-applied bifenthrin. Rotation of root balls significantly reduced grub numbers compared with nonrotated treatments for fall-applied chlorpyrifos (six drenches) and bifenthrin (two or six drenches), but these treatments did not meet DJHP standards. The study indicates chlorpyrifos, bifenthrin, and thiamethoxam drenches can control Japanese beetle in the spring and may provide a new postharvest option to certify B&B plants for Japanese beetle.	1	pesticide
18767757	Oxydemeton-methyl resistance, mechanisms, and associated fitness cost in green peach aphids (Hemiptera: Aphididae).	Susceptibility to oxydemeton-methyl and imidacloprid, and the inhibitory effects of oxydemeton-methyl and some organophosphate compounds on acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and carboxylesterase activity were studied in two populations (Karaj and Rasht) of green peach aphids, Myzus persicae (Sulzer). Results show that the Karaj population was resistant to oxydemeton-methyl but susceptible to imidacloprid. The esterase activity of the resistant and susceptible populations suggests that one of the resistance mechanisms to oxydemeton-methyl was esterase-based. The inhibition assay shows that the AChE of the Karaj population is less sensitive to oxydemeton-methyl and paraoxon derivatives. Regarding the paraoxon derivatives, the smaller paraoxon side chain is more potent against the modified AChE than against the AChE from the susceptible strain. Fertility life table parameters of green peach aphid populations resistant and susceptible to oxydemeton-methyl also were studied under laboratory conditions. The standard errors of the population growth parameters were calculated using the Jackknife method. Results showed that susceptible strain exhibits a significantly higher r(m) than the resistant strain, probably because the resistant strain had a higher generation time than the susceptible strain. These results suggested that the resistant Karaj strain may be less fit than the susceptible strain.	1	pesticide
18773955	Developmental neurotoxicity of parathion: progressive effects on serotonergic systems in adolescence and adulthood.	Neonatal exposures to organophosphates that are not acutely symptomatic or that produce little or no cholinesterase inhibition can nevertheless compromise the development and later function of critical neural pathways, including serotonin (5HT) systems that regulate emotional behaviors. We administered parathion to newborn rats on postnatal days (PN) 1-4 at doses spanning the threshold for detectable cholinesterase inhibition (0.1 mg/kg/day) and the first signs of loss of viability (0.2 mg/kg/day). In adolescence (PN30), young adulthood (PN60) and full adulthood (PN100), we measured radioligand binding to 5HT(1A) and 5HT(2) receptors, and to the 5HT transporter in the brain regions comprising all the major 5HT projections and 5HT cell bodies. Parathion caused a biphasic effect over later development with initial, widespread upregulation of 5HT(1A) receptors that peaked in the frontal/parietal cortex by PN60, followed by a diminution of that effect in most regions and emergence of deficits at PN100. There were smaller, but statistically significant changes in 5HT(2) receptors and the 5HT transporter. These findings stand in strong contrast to previous results with neonatal exposure to a different organophosphate, chlorpyrifos, which evoked parallel upregulation of all three 5HT synaptic proteins that persisted from adolescence through full adulthood and that targeted males much more than females. Our results support the view that the various organophosphates have disparate effects on 5HT systems, distinct from their shared property as cholinesterase inhibitors, and the targeting of 5HT function points toward the importance of studying the impact of these agents on 5HT-linked behaviors.	1	pesticide
18797795	Identification of the antimicrobial substances produced by Solanum palinacanthum (Solanaceae).	To find out natural antimicrobial agents as alternative in therapeutics and to preserve food, the methanol extract of Solanum palinacanthum aerial parts was submitted to purification steps guided by antibacterial and antifungal assays. As a consequence, the flavonoid rutin and 3,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid were isolated by column chromatography and high performance liquid chromatography, and identified by mass and nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry. Minimal inhibitory concentrations (MIC) of the quinic acid derivative against Aeromonas hydrophila, Bacillus subtilis, Staphylococcus aureus and the fungus Aspergillus ochraceus were 250, 1000, 1000 and > 568 microg/mL, respectively. Against the same microorganisms, MIC for rutin were 1000, > 1000, > 1000 and 35 microg/mL, respectively. Rutin was very promising for A. ochraceus control, since its MIC against such fungus was close to the one observed for benzalkonium chloride, which is used as a fungicide in Brazil.	1	pesticide
18799185	TiO₂ supported over SBA-15: an efficient photocatalyst for the pesticide degradation using solar light.	Photocatalytic degradation and mineralization of pesticides are studied over TiO(2) supported mesoporous SBA-15 composite system using solar light. TiO(2) is immobilized over SBA-15 by solid sate dispersion method. The catalysts are characterized by XRD, surface area, UV-Vis diffused reflectance spectra, SEM and TEM. The detailed photocatalytic degradation studies are carried out over TiO(2), SBA-15 and different TiO(2) wt% supported SBA-15. The activity evaluation parameters such as catalyst amount, pH, and pollutant initial concentration are studied taking isoproturon as a model compound and established conditions for pesticide degradation. The optimum degradation is achieved over 10 wt% TiO(2)/SBA-15 within 30 min and the reaction is following pseudo-first order kinetics. The isoproturon mineralization is monitored with TOC reduction and it takes around 9h for disappearance. The commercial pesticide solutions containing imidacloprid and phosphamidon are also successfully degraded over these composites with the established conditions. The data indicates that 10 wt% TiO(2)/SBA-15 composite is an effective and highly active system for the pesticide degradations.	1	pesticide
18800721	[Mechanism of damage of DNA induced by carbaryl and heavy metal ions].	The effect of heavy metals on the adduct of carbaryl and calf thymus DNA in vitro was studied using fluorescence and UV spectrum. The results showed that heavy metals can influence the carbaryl quenching constant and the number of binding sites, and the order of is Pb2+ >Ag2+ >Cu2+ >Ni2+ >Co2+ >Zn2+ >Cd2+ >Cr2+. The UV spectrum study showed that the heavy metal ions can change the double helix structure of ctDNA, and the order of this ability is Pb2+ >Cd2+ >Ag+ >Co2+ Zn2t approximately Cu2+ >Ni2+ >Cr+.	1	pesticide
18823064	Brief exposure of Blattella germanica (Blattodea) to insecticides formulated in various microcapsule sizes and applied on porous and non-porous surfaces.	BACKGROUND: The authors explored how microcapsule size and brief exposure affected the bioavailability of five microencapsulated insecticide formulations, chlorpyrifos 23.1 g L(-1) CS (Detmol-PRO), chlorpyrifos 20 g L(-1) CS (Empire 20), fenitrothion 20 g L(-1) CS (Detmol-Mic), cyphenothrin 10 g L(-1) CS (Detmol-CAP) and diazinon 30 g L(-1) CS (Diacap), to Blattella germanica L. on porous and non-porous surfaces. The hypothesis was tested that microencapsulated (CS) insecticides comprising larger microcapsules show higher efficacy on porous surfaces than formulations with smaller microcapsules. RESULTS: Brief exposure was accomplished by allowing B. germanica to cross a 0.3 m insecticide barrier in 30 s (1.01 cm s(-1)). Such short exposure did not lead to 100% mortality in any formulation or surface tested. Significant differences in bioavailability on the porous and the non-porous surfaces were found: the largest difference was observed in Empire 20 and Detmol CAP, while bioavailability of Detmol MIC did not differ on porous and non-porous surfaces. Comparison of their microcapsule size spectra revealed that formulations containing larger microcapsules had higher efficacy on porous surfaces than formulations with smaller microcapsules. In order to explain the difference in efficacy, the variance of microcapsule sizes was regressed on the efficacy ratio on porous versus non-porous surfaces. Although negative correlation was evident between size of capsules and the efficacy ratio on porous and non-porous surfaces, the difference in the slope parameter was not statistically significant. CONCLUSION: Brief contact of B. germanica with insecticide spray residues, which is common in barrier treatment, may lead to low efficacy, especially on porous surfaces. The latter should be preferably treated with CS insecticides containing a fraction with large capsules. In addition to the size of the microcapsules, the role of other factors, such as wall capsule thickness and chemical composition, on CS insecticide activity on various surfaces should be examined in future work.	1	pesticide
18824247	Responsiveness of the interrenal tissue of Jundiá (Rhamdia quelen) to an in vivo ACTH test following acute exposure to sublethal concentrations of agrichemicals.	As in many aquatic environments, pollution is a widespread problem in Southern Brazil. In our previous work, we demonstrated that sublethal contamination with some agrichemicals impairs the capacity of fishes to elevate cortisol levels in response to an additional acute stressor. In earlier experiments, the experimental design did not allow us to conclude where this effect occurs. In the present work, we used the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) challenge test to help us identify if the impairment occur in the interrenal tissue. For this purpose, five experiments were conducted, each with one specific agrichemical (methyl-parathion, atrazine+simazine, atrazine, tebuconazole, and glyphosate) in sublethal concentrations of 16.6% of the LC(50-96h), as previously determined. Fish were subjected to the ACTH challenge test protocol as follows: group 1, were non-injected and maintained as the specific control group; group 2 received an injection of the vehicle alone (the saline group); and group 3 receive an injection of ACTH. One hour later, blood samples were taken from the caudal plexus, using sterile syringes. In all specific control groups, the injection of ACTH induced a strong rise in plasma cortisol, compared with the fish injected only with the vehicle and the non-injected group. Fish exposed to methyl-parathion and tebuconazole did not elevate cortisol in response to the ACTH injection, with values significantly lower than the control fish. Fish exposed to sublethal concentrations of atrazine+simazine, atrazine, and glyphosate showed a rise in plasma cortisol very similar to the control fish. We conclude that the ACTH challenge test revealed that R. quelen exposed to sublethal concentrations of tebuconazole and methyl-parathion had a reduced ability to elevate plasma cortisol in response to an intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of exogenous ACTH, indicating that the interrenal tissue is the site of the impairment within the HPI axis. These ACTH challenge tests also revealed that the impairment of the cortisol response verified in fish exposed to atrazine+simazine and glyphosate, as shown in our previous work, seems to be related to steps of cortisol secretion in higher levels within the HPI axis.	1	pesticide
18831372	Devicyprin induced gonadal impairment in a freshwater food fish, Channa punctatus (Bloch).	Synthetic pyrethroids are the recent major class of broad spectrum, photostable, organic insecticides used in agricultural, domestic and veterinary applications and now account for more than 30% of global insecticide use. Cypermethrin is metabolized and eliminated significantly more slowly by fish than by mammals or birds, which may explain this compound's high toxicity in fish compared to other organisms. The present communication deals with histoanatomical alterations in the gonads of a local fresh water food fish, Channa punctatus exposed to 0.033 ppm (96 hr LC50 X 1/10) concentration of a synthetic pyrethroid, devicyprin (cypermethrin 25%) in aquatic medium of aged tap water for 15, 30 and 45 days respectively. In testis, exposure dependent histological damage has been observed in terms of vacuolization, condensation of spermatogonic cells, distortion of tubular epithelium, shrinkage of interstitial cells and general inflammatory responses. Longest exposure of 45 days has resulted in peculiar starry-sky appearance of the testicular tissue. Gross histo-anatomy of ovarian tissue reveals epithelial lesions, inflammatory responses, stromal hemorrhage, increased interstitium and shrinkage of yolk vesicles towards periphery These findings are quite suggestive of reproductive impairments leading to delayed gonadal maturity and adversely affecting processes of sperm production and ovulation and thus, the fish production.	1	pesticide
18944315	Identification and Characterization of Benomyl-Resistant and -Sensitive Populations of Colletotrichum gloeosporioides from Statice (Limonium spp.).	ABSTRACT Sixty-four isolates of Colletotrichum gloeosporioides were isolated from infected Limonium spp. cultivated in 12 different locations in Israel. All isolates were identified as belonging to the C. gloeosporioides complex by species-specific primers. Of these isolates, 46 were resistant to benomyl at 10 mug/ml and 18 were sensitive to this concentration of fungicide. Based on arbitrarily primed polymerase chain reaction of all isolates and internal transcribed spacer-1 sequence analyses of 12 selected isolates, the benomyl-resistant and -sensitive populations belong to two distinct genotypes. Sequence analyses of the beta-tubulin genes, TUB1 and TUB2, of five sensitive and five resistant representative isolates of C. gloeosporioides from Limonium spp. revealed that the benomyl-resistant isolates had an alanine substitute instead of a glutamic acid at position 198 in TUB2. All data suggest that the resistant and sensitive genotypes are two independent and separate populations. Because all Limonium plant propagation material is imported from various geographic regions worldwide, and benomyl is not applied to this crop or for the control of Colletotrichum spp. in Israel, it is presumed that plants are bearing quiescent infections from the points of origin prior to arrival.	1	pesticide
18945499	Impact of lambda-cyhalothrin on a macroinvertebrate assemblage in outdoor experimental channels: implications for ecosystem functioning.	In this study, the impact of a single pulse of the pyrethroid lambda-cyhalothrin was tested on a macroinvertebrate assemblage consisting of Gammarus pulex, Leuctra nigra, Heptagenia sulphurea and Ancylus fluviatilis in outdoor experimental stream channels. Channels (4m long, 0.1m wide) were groundwater fed and had natural substratum. Macroinvertebrates were exposed to 10.65 or 106.5 ng L(-1) lambda cyhalothrin for 90 min in the laboratory and after 24h introduced to the experimental stream channels with four replicates of each treatment and controls. Drift samples were taken with 24-h interval for 10 days and behaviour of drifted macroinvertebrates was assessed. Microalgae biomass was measured on days 1, 5, 8 and 10 along with leaf litter decomposition using leaf packs of beech (Fagus sylvatica). Numbers of drifting G. pulex and L. nigra with reduced mobility increased significantly with concentration of lambda-cyhalothrin. Increase of algal biomass was significantly greater in stream channels with macroinvertebrates exposed to 106.5 ng L(-1) compared to controls and 10.65 ng L(-1) treatments. Accrual of microalgal biomass was significantly higher in the high concentration treatment and decomposition of leaf litter was significantly greater in control channels compared to channels with exposed macroinvertebrates. This study may apply valuable knowledge to the understanding and assessment of how pyrethroids impact ecosystem functioning in streams.	1	pesticide
18947873	Pesticide exposure resulting from treatment of lice infestation in school-aged children in Georgia.	OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to assess pesticide exposures in children being treated for head lice with either lindane or permethrin (exposed group) and children who did not have a lice infestation and thus were not being treated with chemicals for head lice or scabies (unexposed group). METHODS: In 2001, we enrolled 78 children aged 6-10 years old and collected baseline urine samples and demographic information from all the children. We subsequently collected post-exposure urine samples and questionnaire information about lice treatment from the 29 (37%) children (exposed children) who had been diagnosed and were being treated for head lice. Metabolites of the pesticides lindane and permethrin were measured in the samples. RESULTS: The mean age of exposed and unexposed children in the study population was 9.3 years and 8.5 years, respectively. Fourteen of the 29 exposed children used prescription lice treatments (i.e., lindane or malathion); 25 of the 29 exposed children used at least one over-the-counter permethrin treatment, either alone or in addition to prescription treatments. Exposed children in both counties had higher urinary pyrethroid metabolite levels in their post-exposure samples compared with their baseline samples. However this difference was only significant in Forsyth County children. CONCLUSIONS: The significantly increased post-exposure pyrethroid metabolite levels in the urine of Forsyth County children suggest that the children are exposed to pyrethroid insecticides through the use of lice shampoos.	1	pesticide
18958657	Early pesticide exposure and later mortality in rural Africa: a new hypothesis.	Season of birth correlates with approximately 10-fold increased risk of early mortality from infectious disease in parts of The Gambia, West Africa. The increased early death occurred in individuals aged 25-50, who were born during the nonharvest season when stored groundnuts constituted a significant portion of the diet. Insect pests destroy stored groundnuts if not prevented, thus, the people mix insecticides into the storage bags before sealing of the bags. This procedure has been used since the 1970s or earlier, with the specific insecticide agents varying by availability. Organochlorine insecticides including DDT, lindane, and chlordane were added to bags until as recently as the 1980s. Subsequently organophosphates and pyrethroids became available and largely replaced the organochlorine agents. These agents both cross the placenta and are secreted into milk. Further, all are recognized immunotoxicants. These collective observations suggest the possibility that perinatal immunotoxic pesticide exposure, in individuals born during nonharvest months, may impair development of the immune system and increase risk of early death from infectious disease. Additional studies are planned to investigate our hypothesis that pesticide-related developmental immuntoxicity may contribute, in part, to Gambian seasonal mortality.	1	pesticide
18970689	Determination of carbofuran in water by homogeneous immunoassay using selectively conjugate mastoparan and terbium/dipicolinic acid fluorescent complex.	Homogeneous immunoassay (LITRFIA) for carbofuran (CF) determination was performed using liposomes and mastoparan (Mast) conjugate as cytolitic agent. Mast was conjugated to the 5-(2-2-dimethyl-2,3-dihydro-benzofuran-7-yloxy)-pentanoic acid (CPCF) both randomly and selectively to a single (V(1)- or K(4)-) amino-group. The conjugated compounds have been tested for the cytolytic activity on liposomes trapping Tb/citrate complex. Dipicolinic acid (DPA) was used as fluorescent chelating agent. The CPCF-V(1)-Mast derivative (retaining almost the same lytic activity as Mast) was used in the immunoassay in competition with standard CF. Liposome lysis was proportional to the standard concentrations in a dynamic range between 10 pg and 10 ng. Assay has been performed for tap water analysis and for 10 real samples taken from an agricultural area to the south of Milan. Recovery in samples spiked with two different CF concentrations was between 92.5 and 105%.	1	pesticide
18973704	The effect of a single blood meal on the phenotypic expression of insecticide resistance in the major malaria vector Anopheles funestus.	BACKGROUND: Anopheles funestus is a major malaria vector in southern Africa. Vector control relies on the use of insecticide chemicals to significantly reduce the number of malaria vectors by targeting that portion of the female population that takes blood meals and subsequently rests indoors. It has been suggested that the intake of a blood meal may assist female mosquitoes to tolerate higher doses of insecticide through vigour tolerance. It is hypothesized that during the process of blood digestion, detoxification mechanisms required for the neutralizing of harmful components in the blood meal may also confer an increased ability to tolerate insecticide intoxication through increased enzyme regulation. METHODS: Bottle bioassays using a range of concentrations of the pyrethroid insecticide permethrin were performed on pyrethroid susceptible and resistant laboratory strains of An. funestus in order to detect differences in insecticide susceptibility following a single blood meal. Based on these results, a discriminating dosage was identified (double the lowest dosage that resulted in 100% mortality of the susceptible strain). Blood-fed and unfed females drawn from the resistant strain of An. funestus were then assayed against this discriminating dose, and the percentage mortality for each sample was scored and compared. RESULTS: In the insecticide dose response assays neither the fully susceptible nor the resistant strain of An. funestus showed any significant difference in insecticide susceptibility following a blood meal, regardless of the stage of blood meal digestion. A significant increase in the level of resistance was however detected in the resistant An. funestus strain following a single blood meal, based on exposure to a discriminating dose of permethrin. CONCLUSION: The fully susceptible An. funestus strain did not show any significant alteration in susceptibility to insecticide following a blood meal suggesting that vigour tolerance through increased body mass (and increased dilution of internalized insecticide) does not play a significant role in tolerance to insecticide intoxication. The increase in insecticide tolerance in the pyrethroid resistant strain of An. funestus following a blood meal suggests that insecticide detoxification mechanisms involved in insecticide resistance are stimulated by the presence of a blood meal prior to insecticide exposure, leading to enhanced expression of the resistance phenotype. This finding may be significant in terms of the methods used to control indoor resting populations of An. funestus if the mass killing effect of insecticide application proves increasingly inadequate against blood-feeding females already carrying the insecticide resistance phenotype.	1	pesticide
18975624	The effect of a topical insecticide containing permethrin on the number of Culicoides midges caught near horses with and without insect bite hypersensitivity in the Netherlands.	Insect bite hypersensitivity (IBH) in horses is most likely caused by Culicoides species, although other insects may also play a role. Until now no effective cure has been found for this condition, although numerous therapeutic and preventive measures have been used to control insect hypersensitivity. One such method is to apply a topical insecticide to horses. In this study, the effect of a topical insecticide containing permethrin (3.6%) was examined in seven pairs of horses. The horses were placed inside a tent trap to collect Culicoides spp. and other insects attracted to the horses on two subsequent evenings. On the first evening, both horses were untreated. After the end of this session, one horse of each pair was treated with the pour-on insecticide; treated horses were kept separate from untreated horses. The next evening the pairs of horses were again placed inside the tent trap and insects were collected. Similar percentages of Culicoides were trapped as in earlier studies (C. obsoletus 95.34% and C. pulicaris 4.54%), with healthy horses attracting more Culicoides than horses affected by IBH. The number of Culicoides, the percentage of blood-fed Culicoides obsoletus, and the total number of insects attracted to horses 24 hours after treatment with permethrin were reduced but the reduction was not statistically significant. No negative side effects of permethrin administration were observed.	1	pesticide
18977377	Toxico-pathological effects in rats induced by concurrent exposure to aflatoxin and cypermethrin.	The objective of the present study was to explore modification in toxico-pathological responses of rats toward aflatoxins in the presence of cypermethrin. A total of 120 adult male rats divided into six equal groups received AF and cypermethrin alone or in different combinations. AF was administered daily into rats with a stomach tube at dose rates of 0, 0.5 and 1.0mg/kg AFB1. Cypermthrin was administered in the feed at dose levels of 0 and 500mg/kg. Rats administered AF alone showed depression, decrease in feed intake, body weight and loose feces. Livers exhibited fatty change, necrosis, newly formed bile ducts and increased diameter of hepatocytes and their nuclei. Lesions in kidney included tubular necrosis and pink homogeneous tubular casts. Serum ALT and creatinine concentrations increased while those of total proteins, albumin, serum cholesterol and triglycerides decreased. Rats fed cypermethrin only had decreased feed intake and body weight. Hepatocytes showed fatty change and cellular necrosis. A concurrent administration of AF with cypermethrin indicated a potentiation of the AF toxicity reflected by increased severity of clinical signs, mortality of the rats and decreased body weights. Kidneys' relative weight also showed an equivocal interaction between the two toxicants. Other parameters studied did not show significant differences between the rats administered AF alone or concurrently with cypermethrin.	1	pesticide
18980129	Reflectometric cutinase assay for rapid screening of contaminants and residues of insecticidal organophosphates and carbamates.	Because of the extensive use of insecticides in agriculture, there is an increasing demand for rapid analytical methods for residues in food and feed control. To meet this need, a completely new application of the reflectometric lipase test (Reflectoquant, Merck) was developed. By using the cutinase-induced reaction of the substrate 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indoxyl caprylate on the test strips, residues of organophosphates and carbamates can be determined on the basis of enzyme inhibition in a fast and inexpensive way. With this technique, we investigated the inhibition effects of representative insecticides, i.e., chlorpyrifos oxon, paraoxon, and carbaryl. The bimolecular inhibitory rate constants (ki) were found to agree well with those obtained by a previously described spectrophotometric cutinase assay in the microtiter-plate format. Recoveries determined with the strip test from spiked samples compared well with those obtained by both the cutinase microtiter-plate assay and liquid chromatographylmass spectrometry.	1	pesticide
18980142	Determination of pesticides in water samples from the Wieprz-krzna Canal in the Leczyńsko-Włodawskie Lake District of southeastern Poland by thin-layer chromatography with diode array scanning and high-performance column liquid chromatography with diode array detection.	High-performance thin-layer chromatography with diode array scanning (TLC-DAD) and high-performance column liquid chromatography with a diode array detector (HPLC-DAD) were used to screen water samples for pesticides. Atrazine, clofentezine, chlorfenvinphos, hexaflumuron, terbuthylazine, lenacyl, neburon, bitertanol, and metamitron were enriched from canal water samples by solid-phase extraction (SPE) on octadecyl silane (C18)/styrene-divinylbenzene-1, C18, C18 Polar Plus, and cyanopropyl (CN) cartridges. Recovery rates were high for all extraction materials except CN, for which values for all pesticides were lower. SPE was used for both preconcentration and fractionation of the analytes. Analytes were eluted by means of methanol and dichloromethane. Methanol eluates were analyzed by HPLC-DAD and dichloromethane eluates by TLC-DAD. The method was validated for precision, repeatability, and accuracy. Calibration graphs were linear between 0.1 and 50.0 microg/mL for all pesticides, and correlation coefficient (r) values were between 0.9994 and 1.000 as determined by HPLC-DAD. Calibration graphs were linear between 0.1 and 1.5 microg/spot for all pesticides, and r values were between 0.9899 and 0.9987 as determined by TLC-DAD. The limit of detection was between 0.04 and 0.23 microg/spot for TLC-DAD and 0.02 and 0.45 microg/mL for HPLC-DAD.	1	pesticide
19002502	A cocktail of contaminants: how mixtures of pesticides at low concentrations affect aquatic communities.	The ubiquity of anthropogenic chemicals in nature poses a challenge to understanding how ecological communities are impacted by them. While we are rapidly gaining an understanding of how individual contaminants affect communities, communities are exposed to suites of contaminants yet investigations of the effects of diverse contaminant mixtures in aquatic communities are rare. I examined how a single application of five insecticides (malathion, carbaryl, chlorpyrifos, diazinon, and endosulfan) and five herbicides (glyphosate, atrazine, acetochlor, metolachlor, and 2,4-D) at low concentrations (2-16 p.p.b.) affected aquatic communities composed of zooplankton, phytoplankton, periphyton, and larval amphibians (gray tree frogs, Hyla versicolor, and leopard frogs, Rana pipiens). Using outdoor mesocosms, I examined each pesticide alone, a mix of insecticides, a mix of herbicides, and a mix of all ten pesticides. Individual pesticides had a wide range of direct and indirect effects on all trophic groups. For some taxa (i.e., zooplankton and algae), the impact of pesticide mixtures could largely be predicted from the impacts of individual pesticides; for other taxa (i.e., amphibians) it could not. For amphibians, there was an apparent direct toxic effect of endosulfan that caused 84% mortality of leopard frogs and an indirect effect induced by diazinon that caused 24% mortality of leopard frogs. When pesticides were combined, the mix of herbicides had no negative effects on the survival and metamorphosis of amphibians, but the mix of insecticides and the mix of all ten pesticides eliminated 99% of leopard frogs. Interestingly, these mixtures did not cause mortality in the gray tree frogs and, as a result, the gray tree frogs grew nearly twice as large due to reduced competition with leopard frogs. In short, wetland communities can be dramatically impacted by low concentrations of pesticides (both separate and combined) and these results offer important insights for the conservation of wetland communities.	1	pesticide
19013644	Genotoxicity of AMPA, the environmental metabolite of glyphosate, assessed by the Comet assay and cytogenetic tests.	Formulations containing glyphosate are the most widely used herbicides in the world. AMPA is the major environmental breakdown product of glyphosate. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the in vitro genotoxicity of AMPA using the Comet assay in Hep-2 cells after 4h of incubation and the chromosome aberration (CA) test in human lymphocytes after 48h of exposition. Potential in vivo genotoxicity was evaluated through the micronucleus test in mice. In the Comet assay, the level of DNA damage in exposed cells at 2.5-7.5mM showed a significant increase compared with the control group. In human lymphocytes we found statistically significant clastogenic effect AMPA at 1.8mM compared with the control group. In vivo, the micronucleus test rendered significant statistical increases at 200-400mg/kg. AMPA was genotoxic in the three performed tests. Very scarce data are available about AMPA potential genotoxicity.	1	pesticide
19015981	Comparative aquatic toxicity of the pyrethroid insecticide lambda-cyhalothrin and its resolved isomer gamma-cyhalothrin.	In this review we compare the sensitivity of a range of aquatic invertebrate and fish species to gamma-cyhalothrin (GCH), the insecticidally active enantiomer of the synthetic pyrethroid lambda-cyhalothrin (LCH), in single-species laboratory tests and outdoor multi-species ecosystem tests. Species sensitivity distribution curves for GCH gave median HC(5) values of 0.47 ng/L for invertebrates, and 23.7 ng/L for fish, while curves for LCH gave median HC(5) values of 1.05 ng/L and 40.9 ng/L for invertebrates and fish, respectively. A model ecosystem test with GCH gave a community-level no observed effect concentration (NOEC(community)) of 5 ng/L, while model ecosystem tests with LCH gave a NOEC(community) of 10 ng/L. These comparisons between GCH and LCH indicate that the single active enantiomer causes effects at approximately one-half the concentration at which the racemate causes similar effects.	1	pesticide
19019354	Combined analysis of prenatal (maternal hair and blood) and neonatal (infant hair, cord blood and meconium) matrices to detect fetal exposure to environmental pesticides.	OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to determine optimum biomarkers to detect fetal exposure to environmental pesticides by the simultaneous analysis of maternal (hair and blood) and infant (cord blood, infant hair or meconium) matrices and to determine if a combination of these biomarkers will further increase the detection rate. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Pregnant women were prospectively recruited from an agricultural site in the Philippines with substantial use at home and in the farm of the following pesticides: propoxur, cyfluthrin, chlorpyrifos, cypermethrin, pretilachlor, bioallethrin, malathion, diazinon and transfluthrin. Maternal hair and blood were obtained at midgestation and at delivery and infant hair, cord blood and meconium were obtained after birth. All samples were analyzed by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) for the above pesticides and some of their metabolites. RESULTS: A total of 598 mother/infant dyads were included in this report. The highest rates of pesticide exposure were detected in meconium (23.2% to propoxur, 2.0% to pretilachlor, 1.7% to cypermethrin, 0.8% to cyfluthrin, 0.7% to 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis, p-chlorophenylethane (DDT) and 0.3% to malathion and bioallethrin) and in maternal hair (21.6% to propoxur, 14.5% to bioallethrin, 1.3% to malathion, 0.8% to DDT, 0.3% to chlorpyrifos and 0.2% to pretilachlor). Combined analysis of maternal hair and meconium increased detection rate further to 38.5% for propoxur and to 16.7% for pyrethroids. Pesticide metabolites were rarely found in any of the analyzed matrices. CONCLUSIONS: There is significant exposure of the pregnant woman and her fetus to pesticides, particularly to the home pesticides, propoxur and pyrethroids. Analysis of meconium for pesticides was the single most sensitive measure of exposure. However, combined analysis of maternal hair and meconium significantly increased the detection rate. A major advantage of analyzing maternal hair is that prenatal pesticide exposure in the mother can be detected and intervention measures can be initiated to minimize further exposure of the fetus to pesticides.	1	pesticide
19022473	Pesticide and PCB residues in the aquatic ecosystems of Laguna de Terminos, a protected area of the coast of Campeche, Mexico.	The coastal lagoon system of Laguna de Terminos, Campeche, Mexico, a natural reserve since 1994, was investigated for contamination by agricultural and industrial chemical residues. Water, sediment and biota samples were analyzed for a wide variety of organochlorine and organophosphorus compounds. Chlorpyrifos was detected in water in concentrations up to 72 pgL(-1) and, amongst organochlorine compounds, summation operator PCB were measured averaging 1177 pgL(-1) and summation operator DDT 279 pgL(-1). Residues of chlorinated compounds were present in sediments and in biota with summation operator DDT averaging 190 pg g(-1) and 5876 pg g(-1) in sediment and oysters, respectively. Results show that the more widespread contaminants in the Laguna were residues of chlorinated hydrocarbons, such as DDTs, PCBs, endosulfan, and lindane. Concentrations of residues were not at an alarming level and were even lower than reported for other costal lagoons of the region. Still there is a need to implement control measures on persistent and bioaccumulative compounds that may reach the aquatic system of Laguna de Terminos.	1	pesticide
19027929	Homogeneous oxidation of aqueous solutions of atrazine and fenitrothion through dark and photo-Fenton reactions.	The homogeneous catalytic oxidation of atrazine and fenitrothion in single compound-containing solutions and in mixture, in pure water, was investigated in dark and light-driven oxidation systems using H(2)O(2) as the oxidant and Fe(II) as the catalyst. It was shown that the degradation during the dark Fenton reactions takes place during the first 2h and further prolongation of the reaction time does not lead to enhanced removals. The same holds true for the light-driven reactions. With the photo-Fenton reaction, fenitrothion was completely mineralized while the TOC contained in the atrazine solution was removed by 57%. Both compounds in their parent form were completely eliminated from the first 5 min of the oxidation both when being in the single-containing solutions and in their binary mixture. The oxidation of the TOC in the atrazine solution follows a two-stage second-order kinetic behavior which is attributed to the complex reaction pathways occurring during the oxidation while that of the TOC in the fenitrothion solutions follows a pseudo-first order degradation kinetic and that of binary mixture a two-stage degradation kinetics. The results obtained in this study, clearly indicate that the light-driven Fenton oxidation can be very efficient for the removal of atrazine and especially fenitrothion from polluted waters.	1	pesticide
19038414	Atrazine removal from water by polycation-clay composites: effect of dissolved organic matter and comparison to activated carbon.	Atrazine removal from water by two polycations pre-adsorbed on montmorillonite was studied. Batch experiments demonstrated that the most suitable composite poly (4-vinylpyridine-co-styrene)-montmorillonite (PVP-co-S90%-mont.) removed 90-99% of atrazine (0.5-28 ppm) within 20-40 min at 0.367% w/w. Calculations employing Langmuir's equation could simulate and predict the kinetics and final extents of atrazine adsorption. Column filter experiments (columns 20x1.6 cm) which included 2g of the PVP-co-S90%-mont. composite mixed with excess sand removed 93-96% of atrazine (800 ppb) for the first 800 pore volumes, whereas the same amount of granular activated carbon (GAC) removed 83-75%. In the presence of dissolved organic matter (DOM; 3.7 ppm) the efficiency of the GAC filter to remove atrazine decreased significantly (68-52% removal), whereas the corresponding efficiency of the PVP-co-S90%-mont. filter was only slightly influenced by DOM. At lower atrazine concentration (7 ppb) the PVP-co-S90%-mont. filter reduced even after 3000 pore volumes the emerging atrazine concentration below 3 ppb (USEPA standard). In the case of the GAC filter the emerging atrazine concentration was between 2.4 and 5.3 microg/L even for the first 100 pore volumes. Thus, the PVP-co-S90%-mont. composite is a new efficient material for the removal of atrazine from water.	1	pesticide
19038812	Comparison of broiler performance and carcass yields when fed diets containing transgenic maize grains from event DP-O9814O-6 (Optimum GAT), near-isogenic control maize grain, or commercial reference maize grains.	A genetically modified maize (Zea mays L.) line that contains the Optimum GAT trait (event DP-Ø9814Ø-6; 98140) was produced by integration of the gat4621 and zm-hra genes. The expressed GAT4621 and ZM-HRA proteins confer tolerance to the herbicidal active ingredient glyphosate and acetolactate synthase-inhibiting herbicides, respectively. The objective of this study was to compare the nutritional performance of 98140 maize grain to nontransgenic maize grain in a 42-d feeding trial in broiler chickens. Diets were prepared using grain from untreated 98140 plants and from plants treated with an in-field application of herbicides (98140 + Spray). For comparison, additional diets were produced with maize grain obtained from the nontransgenic near-isogenic control (control) and nontransgenic commercial reference Pioneer brand hybrids 33J56, 33P66, and 33R77. Diets were fed to Ross x Cobb broilers (n = 120/group, 50% male and 50% female) in 3 phases: starter, grower, and finisher containing 58.5, 64, and 71.5% maize grain, respectively. No statistically significant differences were observed in mortality, growth performance variables, or carcass and organ yields between broilers consuming diets produced with maize grains from unsprayed or sprayed 98140 and those consuming diets produced with near-isogenic control maize grain. Additionally, all performance and carcass variables from control, 98140, and 98140 + Spray test maize treatment groups were within tolerance intervals constructed using data from reference maize groups. Based on these results, it was concluded that 98140 maize grain (unsprayed or sprayed with a herbicide mixture) was nutritionally equivalent to nontransgenic control maize with comparable genetic background.	1	pesticide
19067015	Adsorption of lambda-cyhalothrin and cypermethrin on two typical Chinese soils as affected by copper.	BACKGROUND, AIM, AND SCOPE: Pesticides and heavy metals pollution in soil environment has become a serious problem in many countries including China. Repeated applications of bordeaux mixture (a blend of copper sulfate and calcium hydroxide) and pyrethroid (Pys) insecticides have led to elevated copper (Cu) and Pys concentrations in vineyard surface soils. However, few studies focused on the interaction of Pys and heavy metals in the soil environment. Our previous studies had indicated the combined effect of cypermethrin (CPM) and Cu on soil catalase activity. Also, we had suggested that the addition of Cu could catalyze photo-degradation of CPM and lambda-cyhalothrin (lambda-CHT) in aqueous solution and restrain their degradation in soil. To better understand the potential influence of Cu on the fate of Pys in the soil environment, the aim of the present work was to examine the effect of Cu on the adsorption of lambda-CHT and CPM on two typical Chinese soils with different soil characteristics, which was one of the key processes controlling the fate of Pys, and to provide more information about the potential ecological risk of chemicals on the soil ecosystem. Fourier transform infrared and point charges analysis using the MOPAC program of the Gaussian system were also used to reveal the probable adsorption mechanism of lambda-CHT and CPM on soils. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two vineyard soils with different properties were chosen as experimental samples. They were sampled from 0 to 10 cm, dried, and sieved to 2 mm. Each soil was spiked with copper sulfate solution to obtain the following total soil Cu concentrations: 100, 200, 400, 800, and 1,600 mg.kg(-1). The treated soils were incubated for 2 weeks and then dried at 20 degrees C. For each soil sample and at each soil Cu concentration, the adsorption of lambda-CHT and CPM was measured using a batch equilibrium method. The concentration of lambda-CHT was determined by HPLC, and the amount of lambda-CHT and CPM adsorbed by the soil sample at equilibrium was determined by the difference between the initial and equilibrium concentrations in solution corrected by the blank adsorption measurement. RESULTS: Without the addition of Cu, the adsorption of lambda-CHT and CPM on Black soil is greater than that on Red soil, while the adsorption of lambda-CHT on both soils is significantly stronger than that of CPM. As the soil Cu concentration increased from 19 (or 18; background) to 1,600 mg.kg(-1), the adsorption coefficient (K (d)) of lambda-CHT decreased from 12.2 to 5.9 L.kg(-1) for Red soil, and from 26.1 to 16.8 L.kg(-1) for Black soil, whereas the CPM adsorption coefficient in both soils decreased nearly by 100% (K (d) decreased from 9.4 to 0.2 L.kg(-1) for Red soil and from 16.2 to 0.5 L.kg(-1) for Black soil). DISCUSSION: Pys adsorption is a surface phenomenon which depends on the surface area and the organic matter content. Thus, the Black soil, having higher organic matter and greater surface area than that of the Red soil, show greater adsorption affinity to lambda-CHT and CPM. In our study, the different adsorption affinity of the two Pys was obtained, which was probably attributed to differences with respect to their physical-chemical properties. Further comparison upon the two Pys was conducted. The point charges of halogen atoms in the lambda-CHT and CPM were calculated, the differences of which probably lead to the fact that lambda-CHT has a stronger binding capacity to soils than CPM. Also, FTIR spectra show that competitive adsorption occurs between CPM and Cu for the same adsorption sites, which is responsible for the obtained suppression of CPM adsorption affected by Cu. CONCLUSIONS: Lambda-cyhalothrin shows a significantly stronger adsorption than cypermethrin on both soils. This phenomenon may be due to several reasons: (1) lambda-CHT has lower solubility and a higher octanol-water partition coefficient value than CPM; (2) lambda-CHT consists of specific isomers, whereas CPM is mixtures of eight different isomers; (3) the chlorine and fluorine atoms in the lambda-CHT have a negative point charge, whereas the chlorine atoms in the CPM have a positive point charge. As the soil Cu concentrations increased from 19 (or 18) mg.kg(-1) to 1,600 mg.kg(-1), the adsorption coefficient of lambda-CHT and CPM decreased on both soils. This is mainly due to a competition between Cu and Pys for occupying the adsorption sites on soils. The information from this study have important implications for vineyard and orchard soils, which often contain elevated levels of Cu and Pys. These results are also useful in assessing the environmental fate and health effect of lambda-CHT and CPM. RECOMMENDATIONS AND PERSPECTIVES: It is important for environmental scientists and engineers to get a better understanding of soil-metal-organic contaminant interactions. However, pesticide adsorption involves complex processes, and shortcomings in understanding them still restrict the ability to predict the fate and behavior of pesticide. Therefore, considerable research should be carried out to understand the mechanism of interaction between Pys and heavy metal on soils clearly.	1	pesticide
19071155	Paraoxonase 1 (PON1) status and substrate hydrolysis.	Paraoxonase 1 (PON1) hydrolyzes a number of organophosphorus (OP) compounds including insecticides and nerve agents. The in vivo efficacy of PON1 to protect against a specific OP exposure depends on the catalytic efficiency of hydrolysis. The Q192R polymorphism affects the catalytic efficiency of hydrolysis of some substrates and not others. While PON1(R192) hydrolyzes paraoxon approximately 9-times as efficiently as PON1(Q192), the efficiency is insufficient to provide in vivo protection against paraoxon/parathion exposure. The two PON1(192) alloforms have nearly equivalent but higher catalytic efficiencies for hydrolyzing diazoxon (DZO) and provide equivalent in vivo protection against DZO exposures. On the other hand, PON1(R192) is significantly more efficient in hydrolyzing chlorpyrifos oxon (CPO) than PON1(Q192) and provides better protection against CPO exposure. Thus, for some exposures it is only the level of plasma PON1 that is important, whereas for others it is both plasma level and the PON1(192) alloform(s) present in plasma that are important. In no case is the plasma level of PON1 unimportant, provided that the catalytic efficiency is sufficient to protect against the exposure. Two-substrate enzyme assay/analysis protocols that reveal both PON1 plasma levels and PON1(192) phenotype (QQ; QR; RR) are designed to optimize the separation of PON1(192) phenotypes; however, they have not been optimized for evaluating in vivo rates of OP detoxication. This study describes the adaptation of a non-OP, two-substrate determination of PON1 status to the conversion of the PON1 status data to physiologically relevant rates of DZO and CPO detoxication. Conversion factors were generated for rates of hydrolysis of different substrates.	1	pesticide
19071262	Comparison of different sorbents for multiresidue solid-phase extraction of 16 pesticides from groundwater coupled with high-performance liquid chromatography.	A procedure based on solid-phase extraction (SPE) followed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with diode array detection has been developed for the simultaneous analysis of 16 widely used pesticides in groundwater samples. The compounds analysed were: aldicarb, atrazine, desethylatrazine, desysopropylatrazine, carbofuran, 2,4-D, dicloran, fenitrothion, iprodione, linuron, metalaxyl, metazachlor, phenmedipham, procymidone, simazine and vinclozolin. Five different SPE sorbents, C(18) bonded silica (Isolute SPE C18 (EC)), graphitised carbon black (Superclean Envi-Carb), highly cross-linked polystyrene-divinylbenzene (Lichrolut EN), divinylbenzene-N-vinylpyrrolidone (Oasis HLB) and surface modified styrene-divinylbenzene (Strata X), were compared. HPLC separation and quantification of the selected pesticides was carried out under isocratic conditions by means of a new reversed-phase column (Gemini from Phenomenex) based on C(18) bonded to organic-silica particles. Oasis HLB and Strata X provided the best results in the preconcentration of 1-l samples, yielding average recoveries higher than 70%, except for phenmedipham that rapidly degrades in groundwater. Detection limits of the target pesticides provided by the proposed SPE-HPLC procedure were between 0.003 and 0.04microg l(-1).	1	pesticide
19079720	Changes in pest infestation levels, self-reported pesticide use, and permethrin exposure during pregnancy after the 2000-2001 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency restriction of organophosphates.	BACKGROUND: Widespread residential pesticide use throughout the United States has resulted in ubiquitous, low-level pesticide exposure. The mix of active pesticide ingredients is changing in response to 2000-2001 regulations restricting use of the organophosphorus insecticides chlorpyrifos and diazinon. OBJECTIVES: We aimed to determine the impact of U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations on pest infestation levels, pesticide use, and pesticides measured in indoor air samples. METHODOLOGY: 511 pregnant women from inner-city New York were enrolled between 2000 and 2006. Permethrin, a pyrethroid insecticide; piperonyl butoxide (PBO), a pyrethroid synergist; chlorpyrifos; and diazinon were measured in 48-hr prenatal personal air samples. Data on pest infestation and pesticide use were collected via questionnaire. RESULTS: Eighty-eight percent of women reported using pesticides during pregnancy; 55% reported using higher-exposure pesticide applications (spray cans, pest bombs and/or professional pesticide applicators). Self-reported pest sightings and use of higher-exposure applications increased significantly after the regulations were implemented (p < 0.001). PBO, cis-, and trans-permethrin were detected in 75, 19, and 18% of personal air samples, respectively. Detection frequencies of PBO and cis- and trans-permethrin increased significantly over time (p < 0.05 controlling for potential confounders). Levels and/or detection frequencies of these compounds were significantly higher among mothers reporting use of high exposure pesticide applications (p < or = 0.05). Chlorpyrifos and diazinon levels decreased significantly over time (p < 0.001). CONCLUSION: In this cohort, pest infestations, use of pesticides, and use of permethrin appear to increase after the residential restriction of organophosphorus insecticides. This is one of the first studies to document widespread residential exposure to PBO.	1	pesticide
19082625	Efficacy of a new combined larvicidal-adulticidal ultralow volume formulation against Aedes aegypti (Diptera: Culicidae), vector of dengue.	A new ultralow volume formulation (ULV) containing permethrin as an adulticidal active ingredient and the insect growth regulator (IGR) pyriproxyfen as a larvicide was developed and its efficacy evaluated in a field trial in Wanda, Misiones (Argentina). Two separate study areas were sprayed: one with a ULV formulation of permethrin 15% plus pyriproxyfen 3% and the other with permethrin 15% only. A third untreated area was kept as a control. Sentinel cages containing adult mosquitoes and jars containing Aedes aegypti larvae III/IV were placed in treated and control areas. The residual activity of the formulations was tested using 20 L water containers. The adulticide effect of permethrin 15% + pyriproxyfen 3% formulation was similar to the permethrin 15% formulation, however, the inhibition of adult emergence in the treatment with permethrin 15% never exceeded 20%, whereas the inhibition of adult emergence in the treatment with permethrin 15% plus pyriproxyfen 3% showed initial values of 96% maintaining this high level of inhibition up to 35 days after ULV spraying. Larval indexes (House and Breteau indexes) showed that a greater, long-lasting effect was obtained with the permethrin 15% plus pyriproxyfen 3% formulation.	1	pesticide
19125545	Effects of atrazine on DNA damage and antioxidative enzymes in Vicia faba.	To evaluate atrazine (2-chloro-4-ethylamino-6-isopropylamino-1,3,5-triazine) ecotoxicology in soil, the effect of atrazine on the activity of antioxidative enzymes (superoxide dismutase [SOD], catalase [CAT], and guaiacol peroxidase [POD]) was investigated in Vicia faba roots. Tissues from each treatment were collected on the days 7, 14, 21, and 28. Compared with the controls, SOD activity in V. faba roots was stimulated by the 2.5 mg/kg treatment and inhibited by the 5 and 10 mg/kg treatments, and CAT and POD activities in the 10 mg/kg treatment were inhibited on the whole. The Olive tail moments of single-cell gel electrophoresis of root cells were enhanced after treatment with different doses of atrazine on days 7, 14, 21, and 28, and significant differences were found compared to the controls. In conclusion, atrazine induces oxidative stress and DNA damage on V. faba.	1	pesticide
19133470	Relative repellency and lethality of the neonicotinoids thiamethoxam and acetamiprid and an acetamiprid/bifenthrin combination to Reticulitermes flavipes termites.	Field-collected Reticulitermes flavipes (Kollar) termites were placed in bioassay tubes containing soil treated with one of three termiticides: thiamethoxam, acetamiprid, or a combination of acetamiprid + bifenthrin. In the bioassay tubes, treated soil was placed in a layer centered within untreated sand between two 1.5-cm agar plugs. All termiticides were tested at concentrations of 0.1, 1, 10, and 100 ppm with narrow (1 mm), medium (5 mm), and broad (50 mm) thicknesses of treated soil. Soil penetration and termite mortality were measured after 7 d, and repellency was assessed. Thiamethoxam treatments allowed the greatest soil penetration, whereas acetamiprid + bifenthrin treatments were the most inhibitory to soil penetration. Thiamethoxam treatments also caused consistently greater termite mortality than acetamiprid treatments. These data indicated that acetamiprid prevented soil penetration by termites more than thiamethoxam, although both were less repellent compared with bifenthrin alone, which causes little termite mortality at the tested doses. When there was direct contact of treated soil with the agar plugs in broad treatments, the combination of acetamiprid + bifenthrin was more toxic to R. flavipes termites than either acetamiprid or thiamethoxam alone. The combination acetamiprid + bifenthrin termiticide may be effective in keeping termites away from the treated soil, because of the combined effects of acetamiprid and bifenthrin.	1	pesticide
19149163	[Risk assessment for environmental release of genetically engineered microorganism m-CDS-1].	OBJECTIVE: To assess the environmental release risk of genetically engineered microorganism Sphingomonas sp. m-CDS-1. METHODS: Pesticides detection, plates counting, most probable number-PCR (MPN-PCR) and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) were used to study the pesticides degrading effects, the decline dynamics of m-CDS-1, and the effects of release of m-CDS-1 on community structure of soil microorganisms. RESULTS: m-CDS-1 (1.01 x 10(7)CFU/g dry soil) could degrade both 10.71 mg/kg methyl parathion and 1.29 mg/kg carbofuran in 30 days. m-CDS-1 declined quickly with time, and could not be detected anymore in 30 days. Release of m-CDS-1 would not change the number of the cultivable microorganisms notably. The similarities of PCR-DGGE profiles between the pesticides applied treatments and the controls in 4, 11 and 30 days were 17.16 %, 49.81 % and 75.01 %, and the similarities between the m-CDS-1 released treatments and controls were 49.57 %, 38.3 % and 83.3 %, respectively. In 60 days, DGGE profiles of all treatments and controls had high similarities. CONCLUSION: m-CDS-1 could degrade both pesticides remarkably in the field, and would not be the predominant population, and would not affect the community structure of soil microorganisms in the long term.	1	pesticide
19165729	Resistance of Pakistani field populations of spotted bollworm Earias vittella (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) to pyrethroid, organophosphorus and new chemical insecticides.	BACKGROUND: The spotted bollworm Earias vittella (Fab.) is a serious pest of cotton and okra in Pakistan. Owing to persistent use of insecticides, this pest has developed resistance, especially to pyrethroids. The present studies aimed at determining the extent of resistance to pyrethroid, organophosphorus and new chemical insecticides in Pakistani populations of E. vittella. RESULTS: Field populations of E. vittella were monitored at Multan, Pakistan, from 1999 to 2007 for their resistance against six pyrethroid, four organophosphorus and six new chemical insecticides using a leaf-dip bioassay. Of the pyrethroids, resistance was generally low to zeta-cypermethrin and moderate to high or very high to cypermethrin, deltamethrin, esfenvalerate, bifenthrin and lambda-cyhalothrin. Resistance to organophosphates chlorpyrifos, profenofos, triazophos and phoxim was recorded at very low to low levels. Among new chemicals, E. vittella had no or a very low resistance to spinosad, emamectin benzoate and methoxyfenozide, a very low to low resistance to abamectin, a very low to moderate resistance to indoxacarb and a moderate resistance to chlorfenapyr. CONCLUSION: The results indicate a lack of cross-resistance between pyrethroid and organophosphorus insecticides in E. vittella. Rotation of insecticides showing no, very low or low resistance, but belonging to different insecticide classes with unrelated modes of action, may prevent or mitigate insecticide resistance in E. vittella.	1	pesticide
19183821	Mississippi oxbow lake sediment quality during an artificial flood.	Surface sediment quality was assessed during a 35-day artificial flood in a shallow (<1.5 m) oxbow lake along the Coldwater River, Mississippi, using Hyalella azteca 28-day bioassays. Seventeen pesticides were monitored in sediments before, during and after flooding, with increases in atrazine and metolachlor concentrations coinciding with two unexpected storm events, 51 and 56 mm, during and after flooding, respectively. Mean 28-day H. azteca survival was >85% throughout this study. However, growth was affected at three sites during flooding with limited growth recovery after flooding. Patterns in observed growth impairment were associated with changes in atrazine (R(2)=0.524) and fipronil sulfone (R(2)=0.584) concentrations.	1	pesticide
19215957	Combined photobacterium toxicity of herbicide mixtures containing one insecticide.	To test whether the dose-addition (DA) model can predict the combined toxicity of the mixtures of herbicides that coexisted with insecticide(s), we selected five herbicides (simetryn, prometon, bromacil, velpar, and diquat) and one organophosphorus insecticide (dichlorvos) as the test components. The inhibition toxicities of the six pesticides as well as those of their mixtures to Vibrio qinghaiensis sp.-Q67 were determined by using the microplate toxicity test procedure. The dose-response curves (DRCs) between the observed inhibition toxicities and the doses of the pesticides or the mixtures were modeled by using the nonlinear least square fitting. It was shown that all dose-response relationships were effectively described by the Weibull function. To fully explore the combined toxicities of mixtures including various concentration compositions, we designed three equivalent-effect concentration ratio (EECR) mixtures and six uniform design concentration ratio (UDCR) mixtures. The combined toxicity of a mixture is identified by inspecting whether the DRC predicted by the dose addition (DA) or independent action (IA) locates in the 95% confidence interval of the DRC of the mixture. Furthermore, the possible reason for the three mixtures to depart from the DA action was the very high concentration ratio of diquat in the mixtures.	1	pesticide
19226738	Effect of fungicides and of biocontrol agents against powdery mildew of turnip.	The activity of several fungicides and of two biocontrol agents, Bacillus subtilis and Ampelomyces quisqualis, alone and in combination, against Erysiphe cruciferarum, causal agent of powdery mildew, was evaluated on turnip under controlled conditions. Among the tested fungicides, quinoxyfen and azoxystrobin provided the best disease control, followed by penconazole, myclobutanil, dinocap and meptyldinocap. Sulphur provided a only partial control. The two biocontrol agents used alone provided a only partial disease control, with B. subtilis being generally more effective. The mixture B. subtilis + azoxystrobin was very effective and generally more active than the two components applied alone. The possibility of introducing biocontrol agents into IPM is discussed.	1	pesticide
19237184	Monitoring of pesticides and heavy metals in cucumber fruits produced from different farming systems.	A total of 216kg of cucumber samples, representing three different types of farming production [e.g., conventional (C), greenhouse (G) and organic (O)], were collected from different locations in Giza governorate (Egypt), and subjected to pesticide residue and heavy metal analyses. Residues of some organochlorine pesticides (OCPs), such as hexachlorobenzene (HCB), heptachlor, aldrin, endrin, dieldrin and o,p'-DDT, as well as organophosphorus pesticides (OPPs), such as chlorpyrifos-methyl, thiometon and phorate were found in a number of samples at concentrations exceeding their MRLs. Lindane was detected in 33.3%, 50.0% and 25.0% of samples from C, G and O cucumber, respectively, without violation. The insecticide methamidophos showed high frequency in the analyzed samples of C, G and O cucumber accounting to 66.7%, 41.7% and 50.0%, respectively, without violation. The majority of the analyzed samples contained detectable concentrations of Zn, Cu, Mn, Fe, Cd, Pb, Cr, Ni and Co. Only, Pb and Cd were found in a number of samples at concentrations exceeding their MLs. Contamination among the three types of cucumber either by pesticides or heavy metals varied from a season to another. Generally, the greenhouse cucumber contained the highest value of total pesticide residues (1.016mgkg(-1)), followed by organic (0.442mgkg(-1)) and then conventional (0.415mgkg(-1)) cucumbers. Heavy metal contamination in the three cucumber types accounted to 4.968, 5.350 and 6.248mgkg(-1), respectively. The study shed light to the problem of multi toxicants in a food commodity such as cucumber; a common element in the daily human diet.	1	pesticide
19249876	Toxicity of a dissolved pyrethroid mixture to Hyalella azteca at environmentally relevant concentrations.	Use of pyrethroid pesticides, which are highly toxic to aquatic organisms, has increased substantially over the past decade. In 2006, the pyrethroid pesticides cyfluthrin and permethrin were measured in Sacramento-San Joaquin (SSJ) Delta (CA, USA) water at 5 and 24 ng/L (pptr), respectively. To elucidate any interactions between the two pyrethroids, a 10-d laboratory exposure was performed with 7- to 14-d-old amphipods (Hyalella azteca). Cyfluthrin and permethrin were tested singly and in combination at detected levels and also at half and twice the detected levels, both with and without the addition of 25 ppb of piperonyl butoxide (PBO). Mortality in all treatments was significantly higher than in controls, with the median lethal concentration (LC50) for permethrin with PBO (13.9 ng/L) and the LC50s with and without PBO for cyfluthrin (5.7 and 2.9 ng/L, respectively) at or below levels measured in SSJ Delta water samples. The LC50 for permethrin alone was estimated to be 48.9 ng/L. To evaluate combined toxicity, logistic regression models containing terms for concentrations of cyfluthrin, permethrin, and PBO, as well as models containing all possible combinations of these terms and interactions, were run and compared using Akaike's information criterion. The most parsimonious set of models indicated slight antagonism between cyfluthrin and permethrin. Results indicate that a dissolved mixture of cyfluthrin and permethrin is toxic at environmentally relevant concentrations in the water column.	1	pesticide
19253647	Integrating chemical and biological control of European corn borer in bell pepper.	Using multiple locations and a series of field trials over 2 yr, we evaluated an integrated pest management program for Ostrinia nubilalis (Hübner) (Lepidoptera: Crambidae) management in peppers involving biorational chemistries, inundative releases of Trichogramma ostriniae (Pang & Chen), and conservation of generalist predators. In small plot trials, three biorational insecticides (spinosad, indoxacarb, and methoxyfenozide) provided comparable control of O. nubilalis as two broad-spectrum conventional insecticides (acephate and lambda-cyhalothrin). However, lambdacyhalothrin at most locations, and indoxacarb at one location, resulted in outbreaks of green peach aphids. We also observed significant effects on the generalist predator community: beneficial communities in methoxyfenozide-treated plots were most similar to untreated controls, and acephate-treated plots were the least similar. Management systems comparing untreated controls, inundative release of T. ostriniae with methoxyfenozide applied when lepidopterans exceeded thresholds, or weekly applications of acephate or lambda-cyhalothrin, showed no effects on marketable fruit or percentage of fruit damaged, but the conventional insecticide approach caused aphid flares. Inundative releases of T. ostriniae and biorational chemistries provide a more environmentally sound approach to managing O. nubilalis in peppers, due, in part, to conservation of generalist predators.	1	pesticide
19253660	Carbamates synergize the toxicity of acrinathrin in resistant western flower thrips (Thysanoptera: Thripidae).	The insecticidal efficacy of mixtures of acrinathrin (pyrethroid) with carbamate fungicides (propamocarb, carbendazim, iprovalicarb, and diethofencarb) and insecticides (carbaryl, thiodicarb, pirimicarb, and oxamyl) was studied in a field strain of Frankliniella occidentalis (Pergande). The fungicide propamocarb and the insecticides pirimicarb and oxamyl were selected for further studies of their synergism action with more detailed bioassays. The method consisted of combining increasing concentrations of acrinathrin with a constant sublethal rate of the carbamate as synergist. These three carbamates did not show synergism to acrinathrin in a laboratory insecticide-susceptible strain, but they did in two field strains, with higher acrinathrin resistance corresponding to higher synergism. Carbamates such as pirimicarb, oxamyl, and propamocarb could be practical candidates for field use as synergists, even against other pests with metabolic resistance.	1	pesticide
19262860	Accelerated degradation of aldicarb and its metabolites in cotton field soils.	The degradation of aldicarb, and the metabolites aldicarb sulfoxide and aldicarb sulfone, was evaluated in cotton field soils previously exposed to aldicarb. A loss of efficacy had been observed in two (LM and MS) of the three (CL) field soils as measured by R. reniformis population development and a lack of cotton yield response. Two soils were compared for the first test-one where aldicarb had been effective (CL) and the second where aldicarb had lost its efficacy (LM). The second test included all three soils: autoclaved, non-autoclaved and treated with aldicarb at 0.59 kg a.i./ha, or not treated with aldicarb. The degradation of aldicarb to aldicarb sulfoxide and then to aldicarb sulfone was measured using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) in both tests. In test one, total degradation of aldicarb and its metabolites occurred within 12 days in the LM soil. Aldicarb sulfoxide and aldicarb sulfone were both present in the CL soil at the conclusion of the test at 42 days after aldicarb application. Autoclaving the LM and MS soils extended the persistence of the aldicarb metabolites as compared to the same soils not autoclaved. The rate of degradation was not changed when the CL natural soil was autoclaved. The accelerated degradation was due to more rapid degradation of aldicarb sulfoxide and appears to be biologically mediated.	1	pesticide
19269805	Electrochemical biosensor for pesticides based on acetylcholinesterase immobilized on polyaniline deposited on vertically assembled carbon nanotubes wrapped with ssDNA.	An electrochemical biosensor for the determination of pesticides: methyl parathion and chlorpyrifos, two of the most commonly used organophosphorous insecticides in vegetable crops, is described. The self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) of single walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNT) wrapped by thiol terminated single strand oligonucleotide (ssDNA) on gold was utilized to prepare nano size polyaniline matrix for acetylcholinesterase (AChE) enzyme immobilization. The key step of this biosensor was AChE-acetylcholine enzymatic reaction which causes the small changes of local pH in the vicinity of an electrode surface. The pesticides were determined through inhibition of enzyme reaction. The dynamic range for the determination of methyl parathion and chlorpyrifos was found to be in between 1.0x10(-11) and 1.0x10(-6) M (0.6<SD<3.5) with good reproducibility and stability. The detection limit of the biosensor for both pesticides was found to be 1x10(-12) M. The biosensor has been applied for the determination of methyl parathion and chlorpyrifos in spiked river water samples.	1	pesticide
19277069	Comparison of immunoassay and HPLC-MS/MS used to measure urinary metabolites of atrazine, metolachlor, and chlorpyrifos from farmers and non-farmers in Iowa.	Urine samples were collected from 51 participants in a study investigating pesticide exposure among farm families in Iowa. Aliquots from the samples were sent to two different labs and analyzed for metabolites of atrazine (atrazine mercapturate), metolachlor (metolachlor mercapturate) and chlorpyrifos (TCP) by two different analytical methods: immunoassay and high performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS). HPLC-MS/MS methods tend to be highly specific, but are costly and time consuming. Immunoassay methods are cheaper and faster, but can be less sensitive due to cross reactivity and matrix effects. Three statistical methods were employed to compare the two analytical methods. Each statistical method differed in how the samples that had results below the limit of detection (LOD) were treated. The first two methods involved an imputation procedure and the third method used maximum likelihood estimation (MLE). A fourth statistical method that modeled each lab separately using MLE was used for comparison. The immunoassay and HPLC-MS/MS methods were moderately correlated (correlation 0.40-0.49), but the immunoassay methods consistently had significantly higher geometric mean (GM) estimates for each pesticide metabolite. The GM estimates for atrazine mercapturate, metolachlor mercapturate, and TCP by immunoassay ranged from 0.16-0.98 microg l(-1), 0.24-0.45 microg l(-1) and 14-14 microg l(-1), respectively and by HPLC-MS/MS ranged from 0.0015-0.0039 microg l(-1), 0.12-0.16 microg l(-1), and 2.9-3.0 microg l(-1), respectively. Immunoassays tend to be cheaper and faster than HPLC-MS/MS, however, they may result in an upward bias of urinary pesticide metabolite levels.	1	pesticide
19278716	Bioavailability and biotransformation of sediment-associated pyrethroid insecticides in Lumbriculus variegatus.	In the present study, bioaccumulation potential of two pyrethroid insecticides, bifenthrin and permethrin, was measured using a Lumbriculus variegatus sediment bioaccumulation test. Two sediments differing in their physical characteristics and two different aging periods were tested. Desorption rates measured by Tenax extraction suggested that pyrethroids were bioavailable to L. variegatus, however bioavailability varied among chemicals, sediments and aging time, and was greater for permethrin than bifenthrin. The relatively low biota-sediment accumulation factor (BSAF) values resulted from the extensive biotransformation of pyrethroids by L. variegatus. Biotransformation capacity of L. variegatus to permethrin was further studied with a water-only exposure, and the percentage parent compound dropped to 36.0% after 14 d. These results indicated sediment-associated pyrethroids were bioavailable to L. variegatus, however bioaccumulation was limited because L. variegatus was capable of biotransforming the pyrethroids.	1	pesticide
19283145	Benomyl Tolerance of Ten Fungi Antagonistic to Plant-parasitic Nematodes.	Ten strains of fungi were tested for tolerance to the fungicide benomyl. Verticillium chlamydosporium strain 2 did not grow in the presence of benomyl; Drechraeria coniospora strains 1 and 2 and Chaetomium sp. tolerated only 0.1 mug benomyl/ml medium; Acremonium bacillisporum, an unidentified fungus, and Phoma chrysanthemicola uniformly grew at 1 mug/ml, but some hyphae grew at higher benomyl concentrations; Fusarium sp. tolerated 475 mug/ml, but some hyphae grew on medium amended with 1,000 mug/ml; Verticillium lecanii and V. chlamydosporium strain 1 routinely tolerated 1,000 mug/ml. Fungi generally grew more slowly at higher than at lower benomyl concentrations. Strains with elevated tolerance to benomyl were selected from Acremonium bacillisporum, Drechmeria coniospora, Fusarium sp., and an unidentified fungus. These strains retained the increased tolerance after repeated transfers on unamended medium.	1	pesticide
19287784	Response of Rotylenchulus reniformis to Nematicide Applications on Cotton.	Field experiments were conducted to evaluate the efficacy of five nematicides for the management of Rotylenchulus reniformis and for their effects on growth, development, and yield of cotton. Treatments included 1,3-dichloropropene (1,3-D), fenamiphos, phorate, terbufos, aldicarb, and 1,3-D + aldicarb. Average R. reniformis population densities across all treatments increased from 5,284 at 10 days after planting to a final density at harvest of 15,622 nematodes/500 cm(3) soil. The 1,3-D + aldicarb combination was the only treatment with an average R. reniformis population density significantly (P </= 0.05) lower than that of the untreated control. Seedling stand at 28 days after planting was significantly less in aldicarb-treated plots than in control plots. Plant height was significantly greater in plots treated with nematicides than in the controls. Seed cotton yield was significantly greater from treated plots. Cotton plots treated with the 1,3-D + aldicarb combination produced the highest average yield of 4,139 kg/ha.	1	pesticide
19290282	Effects of aldicarb on nematodes, early season insect pests, and yield of soybean.	The effects of aldicarb on soybean cyst (Heterodera glycines) and root-knot (Meloidogyne incognita and M. arenaria) nematode populations, early season insect pests and soybean (Glycine max) yield were evaluated in five field experiments in northern and southern Alabama. Aldicarb significantly (P = 0.05) reduced nematode populations in only two cases: M. arenaria in Centennial soybean in the Wiregrass site and M. incognita in Bedford soybean in a Tennessee Valley site. No significant difference (P = 0.05) in mean percentage main stem or petiole girdling by threecornered alfalfa hopper (Spissistilus festinus) or in mean number of plants damaged by lesser cornstalk borer (Elasmopalpus lignosellus) occurred among treatments in any experiment. Soybean yields were significantly (P = 0.05) increased in only two cases: in the nematode susceptible Essex and Cobb cultivars planted in the Tennessee Valley and Gulf Coast sites, respectively. Unusually dry 1986 weather conditions may have reduced the activity of aldicarb.	1	pesticide
19291742	Effects of chlorantraniliprole on eggs and larvae of Lobesia botrana (Denis & Schiffermüller) (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae).	BACKGROUND: Chlorantraniliprole is a novel insecticide belonging to the class of selective ryanodine receptor agonists. The aims of this study were to evaluate the toxicity and the length of residual activity of chlorantraniliprole against the grapevine moth, Lobesia botrana (Denis & Schiffermüller), larvae and eggs, under laboratory and field conditions. RESULTS: Dose-response bioassays showed that chlorantraniliprole had a high level of toxicity to neonate larvae of L. botrana. In field trials, chlorantraniliprole applied at 35 mg AI L(-1) was as effective against the larvae as the commercial standard reference, chlorpyrifos-ethyl, and had a long-lasting effect. When applied at a field rate of 35 mg AI L(-1), chlorantraniliprole caused greater than 20% egg mortality. The toxic effect of chlorantraniliprole is completed by its substantial activity against neonates emerging from eggs. CONCLUSION: Chlorantraniliprole can be considered as a useful tool for L. botrana control, providing a new standard in efficacy and an extremely good residual control. The combined effects against eggs and larvae of grapevine moth should contribute to its efficacy in the field. The new mode of action of chlorantraniliprole and its safety to beneficials and non-target organisms would be extremely useful in IPM and for managing resistance to insecticides.	1	pesticide
19295469	High resolution imaging of epithelial injury in the sheep cervicovaginal tract: a promising model for testing safety of candidate microbicides.	BACKGROUND: Access to readily available large animal models and sensitive noninvasive techniques that can be used for the evaluation of microbicide-induced changes in tissue could significantly facilitate preclinical evaluations of microbicide safety. The sheep cervicovaginal tract, with stratified squamous epithelium similar to humans, holds promise as a large animal model used before nonhuman primates. In addition, optical coherence tomography (OCT) could enable high resolution visualization of tissue morphology and noninvasive assessment of microbicide-induced epithelial injury. METHODS: We evaluated the dose response of sheep cervicovaginal tract to benzalkonium chloride (BZK). Twenty sheep received treatment with phosphate-buffered saline or BZK solution (2%, 0.2%, or 0.02%). Pre- and posttreatment colposcopy and OCT images were collected and graded based on World Health Organization criteria and a previously reported scoring system, respectively. Biopsies were collected and the degree of epithelial injury and its thickness was assessed based on histology and OCT. RESULTS: The sheep cervicovagina exhibited anatomic and microscopic features similar to the human. Extensive loss of the epithelium was noted on colposcopy and OCT after application of 2% BZK. Colposcopy detected findings in half of sheep and OCT in all sheep treated with 0.2% BZK. OCT detected differences in the 0.02% BZK-treated group compared with controls, whereas colposcopy failed to detect any changes. CONCLUSIONS: The sheep cervicovagina is similar to humans, and exhibits dose dependent epithelial changes after BZK treatment. These findings suggest that the sheep model and OCT may become valuable tools for the safety evaluation of candidate microbicides, and warrant continued development.	1	pesticide
19295836	Control of Globodera rostochiensis in Relation to Method of Applying Nematodes.	Soaking potato tuber pieces for 15 min in 8,000 mug/ml of oxamyl just before planting reduced the number of Globodera rostochiensis cysts that developed on potato roots, but this treatment was phytotoxic. Five foliar applications of 1.12 kg a.i./ha of oxamyl or carbofuran at 10-day intervals beginning when 90% of the plants had emerged suppressed increase in G. rostochiensis densities. Similar foliar applications of phenamiphos were ineffective in controlling G. rostochiensis. Soil applications (in the row at planting) of aldicarb, carbofuran, phenamiphos, ethoprop, and oxamyl at 5.6 kg a.i./ha reduced the numbers of white females that developed on potato roots, but only those treatments involving aldicarb and oxamyl suppressed G. rostochiensis population increase. Combined soil and foliar treatments did not provide any advantage over soil treatment alone, as soil applications of 5.6 kg a.i./ha alone were equal to, or better than, combined soil (3.4 kg a.i./ha) and foliar (2.2 kg a.i./ha) applications in controlling G. rostochiensis.	1	pesticide
19300716	Effect of Foliar Application of Carbofuran and a Related Compound on Plant-parasitic Nematodes under Greenhouse and Growth Chamber Conditions.	Greenhouse and growth chamber studies were made to investigate the downward systemic nematicidal activity of carbofuran and its analog 2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl [(di-n-butyl)-4-aminosulfenyl] carbamate against Meloidogyne incognita, Tylenchorhynchus claytoni, and Pratylenchus penetrans. Oxamyl was used as standard in tests with T. claytoni. Both carbofuran and its analog reduced all three plant-parasitic species when plant foliage was sprayed with chemical suspension of 1,200, 2,400 or 4,800 ppm. The studies show that fewer chemical applications were required to reduce populations of P. penetrans than to reduce populations of T. claytoni. Oxamyl was somewhat less active than either carbofuran or its analog.	1	pesticide
19305820	Effects of aldicarb and its sulfoxide and sulfone on the biology of Tylenchulus semipenetrans.	In laboratory testing, egg hatch of Tylenchulus semipenetrans was stimulated at concentrations of 1 and 10 microg/ml aldicarb solution and inhibited at 50 and 100 microg/ml. Aldicarb was more inhibitory to egg hatch than the aldicarb sulfoxide and the aldicarb sulfone. Inhibition of hatch at the high concentration was associated with delays in the molting processes, lack of larval movement within the egg, and delays in embryonic development. Nematode motility was reduced at 10, 50, and 100 microg/ml of aldicarb and aldicarb sulfoxide solution, and at 50 and 100 microg/ml aldicarb sulfone. Male development was retarded at 10 microg/nrl and almost completely inhibited at 50 and 100 microg/ml of the three chemicals. In greenhouse tests, female development antl reproduction on roots of citrus seedlings were suppressed by aldicarb at rates of 2.6 microg/ml and completely inhibited at 10.6 microg/ml of soil solution during a 50-day experimental period. Under field conditions, there was little systemic movement of aldicarb into roots located outside treated areas. Aldicarb reduced the nematode larvae and the female adult population in the second year after the second treatment. There were no differences in egg hatch and sex ratio of citrus nematodes between treated and nontreated roots.	1	pesticide
19305826	Effects of nematicides on nematode densities in turf in Connecticut.	The plant-parasitic nematodes Criconemoides lobatum, Hoplolaimus tylenchiformis, and Tylenchorhynchus dubius were present in the top 7.5 cm of sod consisting of numerous stolons and fibrous roots. Phenamiphos and 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane (DBCP) controlled all three species, whereas ethoprop and oxamyl controlled H. tylenchiformis and T. dubius but not C. lobatum. Benomyl and carbofuran controlled H. tylenchiformis but had poor control of C. lobatum and T. dubius. The effectiveness of carbofuran varied with the type of formulation, being most effective as a quick-release formulation. C. lobatum was the most difficult to control with chemicals. No chemical treatment improved the growth of 'Astoria colonial' bentgrass (A. tenuis Sibth.) or Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L.) under the moist condtions prevalent in these tests.	1	pesticide
19308636	Identification and characterization of freshwater algae from a pollution gradient using rbcL sequencing and toxicity testing.	One approach in toxicity testing using microalgae is to assess the modulation of light energy absorbed as a result of exposure to contaminants. In this study, four strains of microalgae were isolated to obtain a variety of taxa for testing from sites receiving various levels of environmental stressors around Christchurch, New Zealand. The strains were characterized by partially sequencing rbcL, a routinely used gene in plant phylogenetics with a large existing database of strains. Based on morphological observation and gene sequences, the strains were identified as Chlorella sp., Neochloris sp., and Choricystis minor. The isolates were exposed to the herbicide glyphosate and the metal zinc, and their responses were measured using the ToxY-PAM system. Chlorella sp. was the most sensitive. Two strains of Choricystis minor were isolated from different ponds in an effluent gradient at a sewage treatment plant. Analysis of variance indicated that the isolate from the least contaminated pond was more sensitive to zinc (although regression analysis did not show this result). This suggests that the selective pressure exerted on algal strains by a contamination gradient over short a distance is detectable by both genetic and physiological methods, with implications for sourcing appropriate indicator organisms from the environment.	1	pesticide
19319990	Genotoxic effects of a particular mixture of acetamiprid and alpha-cypermethrin on chromosome aberration, sister chromatid exchange, and micronucleus formation in human peripheral blood lymphocytes.	The genotoxic effects of a particular mixture of acetamiprid (Acm, neonicotinoid insecticide) and alpha-cypermethrin (alpha-cyp, pyrethroid insecticide) on human peripheral lymphocytes were examined in vitro by chromosomal aberrations (CAs), sister chromatid exchange (SCE), and micronucleus (MN) tests. The human peripheral lymphocytes were treated with 12.5 + 2.5, 15 + 5, 17.5 + 7.5, and 20 + 10 microg/mL of Acm+alpha-cyp, respectively, for 24 and 48 h. The mixture of Acm+alpha-cyp induced the CAs and SCEs at all concentrations and treatment times when compared with both the control and solvent control and these increases were concentration-dependent in both treatment times. MN formation was significantly induced at 12.5 + 2.5, 15 + 5, 17.5 + 7.5, microg/mL of Acm+alpha-cyp when compared with both controls although these increases were not concentration-dependent. Binuclear cells could not be detected sufficiently in the highest concentration of the mixture (20 + 10 microg/mL) for both the 24- and 48-h treatment times. Mitotic index (MI), proliferation index (PI) and nuclear division index (NDI) significantly decreased because of the cytotoxic and cytostatic effects of the mixture, at all concentrations for two treatment periods. Significant decreases in MI and PI were concentration dependent at both treatment times. The decrease in NDI was also concentration-dependent at 48-h treatment period. In general, Acm+alpha-cyp inhibited nuclear division more than positive control, mitomycin C (MMC) and showed a higher cytostatic effect than MMC. Furthermore, in this article, the results of combined effects of Acm+alpha-cyp were compared with the results of single effects of Acm or alpha-cyp (Kocaman and Topaktas,2007,2009, respectively). In conclusion, the particular mixture of Acm+alpha-cyp synergistically induced the genotoxicity/cytotoxicity in human peripheral blood lymphocytes.	1	pesticide
19329692	Chlorpyrifos and atrazine removal from runoff by vegetated filter strips: experiments and predictive modeling.	Runoff volume and flow concentration are hydrological factors that limit effectiveness of vegetated filter strips (VFS) in removing pesticides from surface runoff. Empirical equations that predict VFS pesticide effectiveness based solely on physical characteristics are insufficient on the event scale because they do not completely account for hydrological processes. This research investigated the effect of drainage area ratio (i.e., the ratio of field area to VFS area) and flow concentration (i.e., uniform versus concentrated flow) on pesticide removal efficiency of a VFS and used these data to provide further field verification of a recently proposed numerical/empirical modeling procedure for predicting removal efficiency under variable flow conditions. Runoff volumes were used to simulate drainage area ratios of 15:1 and 30:1. Flow concentration was investigated based on size of the VFS by applying artificial runoff to 10% of the plot width (i.e., concentrated flow) or the full plot width (i.e., uniform flow). Artificial runoff was metered into 4.6-m long VFS plots for 90 min after a simulated rainfall of 63 mm applied over 2 h. The artificial runoff contained sediment and was dosed with chlorpyrifos and atrazine. Pesticide removal efficiency of VFS for uniform flow conditions (59% infiltration; 88% sediment removal) was 85% for chlorpyrifos and 62% for atrazine. Flow concentration reduced removal efficiencies regardless of drainage area ratio (i.e., 16% infiltration, 31% sediment removal, 21% chlorpyrifos removal, and 12% atrazine removal). Without calibration, the predictive modeling based on the integrated VFSMOD and empirical hydrologic-based pesticide trapping efficiency equation predicted atrazine and chlorpyrifos removal efficiency under uniform and concentrated flow conditions. Consideration for hydrological processes, as opposed to statistical relationships based on buffer physical characteristics, is required to adequately predict VFS pesticide trapping efficiency.	1	pesticide
19349059	Dissipation of insecticides in a Mediterranean soil in the presence of wastewater and surfactant solutions. A kinetic model approach.	The simultaneous disappearance of four organophosphorous insecticides in a Mediterranean calcareous soil was evaluated in the presence of surfactant solutions and municipal wastewater. A cationic, an anionic and a non-ionic surfactant were used at a low (0.75 mg L(-1)) and at a high (twice the critical micelle concentration) concentration level. The cationic surfactant was also studied at a higher concentration. Dissipation in control soil was rapid for malathion (half-life 4 days), intermediate for dimethoate and methidathion (ca. 6 days) and slow for diazinon (29 days). Wastewater did either not modify (diazinon, dimethoate and methidathion) or slightly enhance (malathion) insecticide decay. The increase in concentration of the non-ionic surfactant Tween 80 resulted in enhanced dissipation rates for all the pesticides except diazinon. The addition of the anionic surfactant did not show a clear trend. At the highest cationic surfactant concentration a reduction of pesticide disappearance occurred linked with a reduced availability, since the insecticides were retained on the surfactant-modified soil (final residual concentration of 85% for diazinon and approximately 55% for methidathion and dimethoate). Soil microbial activity, estimated by measuring dehydrogenase activity, was low in wastewater- and surfactant-treated soil at the high levels. Fitting of the experimental data to commonly used mathematical models was poor and alternatives were looked for.	1	pesticide
19360753	Multiresidue analysis of pesticides with hydrolyzable functionality in cooked vegetables by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry.	It would be preferable for pesticide residues substituted by hydrolyzable functionality to be analyzed after cooking because their structures are apt to degrade during boiling and/or heating. A liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method for the quantitative determination of 44 pesticide residues with hydrolyzable functional group in five typical vegetable widely consumed in Republic of Korea is described. The sample clean-up was carried out according to the method of Food Code No. 83 established by the Korea Food and Drug Administration (KFDA). Zorbox XDB-C(18) column was selected for the analysis because of the best peak separation. The LC mobile phase consisted of water and 5 mm methanolic ammonium formate, which resulted in a peak shape with good symmetry at each run. Tandem mass spectroscopic (MS/MS) experiments were performed in ESI positive mode and the multiple reaction monitoring modes. A conventional matrix effect was modified to more comprehensive form 100gamma(ij) (%). A high matrix effect (<-30%) was detected for the seven polar pesticides, namely thiamethoxam, clothianidin, acetamiprid, aldicarb, thiacloprid, pirimicarb and methabenzthiazuron. The limits of detection were in the range of 0.1-8.1 microg/kg, indicating a good sensitivity. Most of the recoveries ranged from 70 to 131% with RSDs <or= 20%. The current method allowed rapid quantitation and identification of low pesticide levels in the cooked vegetable samples. Of the screened pesticide residues, only fluquinconazole and dimethomorph below the maximum residue levels established by the KFDA were detected in onion and cucumber samples.	1	pesticide
19368194	Herbicide sorption by immersed soils: stoichiometry and the law of mass action in support of predictive kinetics.	The stoichiometry of labile herbicide sorption on immersed soils has been determined for a few herbicides and a number of soils (Gamble, D. S.; Khan, S. U. Atrazine in organic soil: Chemical speciation during heterogeneous catalysis. J. Agric. Food Chem. 1990, 38, 297-308; Gamble, D. S.; Ismaily, L. A. Atrazine in mineral soil: The analytical chemistry of speciation. Can. J. Chem. 1992, 70, 1590-1596; Gamble, D. S.; Khan, S. U. Atrazine in mineral soil: Chemical species and catalysed hydrolysis. Can. J. Chem. 1992, 70, 1597-1603; Gilchrist, G. F. R.; Gamble, D. S.; Khan, S. U. Atrazine interactions with clay minerals: Kinetics and equilibria of sorption. J. Agric. Food Chem. 1993, 41, 1748-1755; Gamble, D. S. Physical chemistry parameters that control pesticide persistence and leaching in watershed soils. Final report submitted to the Great Lakes Water Quality Program Committee, Guelph, Ontario, June, 1994; Li, J.; Langford, C. H.; Gamble, D. S. Atrazine sorption by a mineral soil: Processes of labile and nonlabile uptake. J. Agric. Food Chem. 1996, 44, 3672-3679; Li, J.; Langford, C. H.; Gamble, D. S. Atrazine sorption by a mineral soil: The effects of size fractions and temperature. J. Agric. Food Chem. 1996, 44, 3680-3684; Gamble, D. S. Pesticide-soil research for the behaviour of chlorothalonil and its metabolite SD-3701 in soil. Final report submitted to Ricerca Inc., Sept 15, 1998; Gamble, D. S. Atrazine sorption kinetics in a characterized soil: Predictive calculations. Environ. Sci. Technol. 2008, 42, 1537-1541). This was done by using equilibrium titrations forthe measurement of labile sorption capacities thetaC. The titrations were made possible by resolving total sorption into its labile and unrecovered fractions. But equilibrium was not also necessary for unrecovered fractions. The site saturation at titration plateaus defined thetaC. The first purpose of determining the stoichiometry is to permitthe use of second-order kinetics instead of unpredictive pseudo-first-order kinetics for sorption modeling. Another purpose is to replace empirical distribution coefficients such as K(D) with the law of mass action for describing equilibria as limiting states. Temperature trends and a comparison with EGME vapor deposition data from the literature indicate a control of herbicide sorption by sorbed water. A preliminary examination of limited data from different sources suggests that future research should investigate some additional correlations. ThetaC and equilibrium functions might both be influenced by soil organic matter carboxyls and carboxylate anions, as well as inorganic materials. Some disadvantages of K(D) are noted.	1	pesticide
19393156	Analysis of permethrin isomers in composite diet samples by molecularly imprinted solid-phase extraction and isotope dilution gas chromatography-ion trap mass spectrometry.	Determination of an individual's aggregate dietary ingestion of pesticides entails analysis of a difficult sample matrix. Permethrin-specific molecularly imprinted polymer (MIP) solid-phase extraction cartridges were developed for use as a sample preparation technique for a composite food matrix. Vortexing with acetonitrile and centrifugation were found to provide optimal extraction of the permethrin isomers from the composite foods. The acetonitrile (with 1% acetic acid) was mostly evaporated and the analytes reconstituted in 90:10 water/acetonitrile in preparation for molecularly imprinted solid-phase extraction. Permethrin elution was accomplished with acetonitrile and sample extracts were analyzed by isotope dilution gas chromatography-ion trap mass spectrometry. Quantitation of product ions provided definitive identification of the pesticide isomers. The final method parameters were tested with fortified composite food samples of varying fat content (1%, 5%, and 10%) and recoveries ranged from 99.3% to 126%. Vegetable samples with incurred pesticide levels were also analyzed with the given method and recoveries were acceptable (81.0-95.7%). Method detection limits were demonstrated in the low ppb range. Finally, the applicability of the MIP stationary phase to extract other pyrethroids, specifically cyfluthrin and cypermethrin, was also investigated.	1	pesticide
19403157	Assessment of the pesticides atrazine, endosulfan sulphate and chlorpyrifos for juvenoid-related endocrine activity using Daphnia magna.	The water flea Daphnia magna belongs to the cyclical parthenogenic species, which can reproduce by either parthenogenesis or sexual reproduction. Recent studies have reported the involvement of the methylfarnesoate hormone, in male sex determination of D. magna. The aim of this study was to evaluate the juvenoid and anti-juvenoid activity of atrazine, endosulfan sulphate, and chlorpyrifos. To assess the juvenoid activity we exposed maternal daphnids to several concentrations of the respective pesticides, using the percentage of male production as endpoint. Fenoxycarb (1microgL(-1)) was used as a positive control. The anti-juvenoid activity was assessed using a similar bioassay after the addition of fenoxycarb (1microgL(-1)) to all test solutions. Fenoxycarb is an insect growth regulator that mimics the action of methylfarnesoate, and promoted the production of 95% of male offspring at the given concentration. Weak juvenoid-agonist activity was detected for endosulfan sulphate, with a significant increase of the percentage of male daphnids detected through logistic regression. In addition, atrazine and endosulfan sulphate antagonized the juvenoid activity of fenoxycarb. These results also corroborate the hypothesis that weak juvenoid agonists can simultaneously act as juvenoid antagonists as it has been observed in other hormonal systems.	1	pesticide
19418479	Rapid method for detecting resistance to a QoI fungicide in Plasmopara viticola populations.	BACKGROUND: The increasing occurrence of Qo inhibitor (QoI)-fungicide-resistant Plasmopara viticola (Berk. & MA Curtis) Berl. & DeToni populations is becoming a serious problem in the control of grapevine downy mildew worldwide. RESULTS: The authors have developed a rapid method for detecting resistance to a QoI fungicide, azoxystrobin, in P. viticola populations using the nested PCR-RFLP method. With this method, a glycine-to-alanine substitution was discovered at codon 143 in the cytochrome b gene of P. viticola populations found in Japan. CONCLUSION: It is proposed that the nested PCR-RFLP method is a high-speed, sensitive and reliable tool for detecting azoxystrobin-resistant P. viticola populations.	1	pesticide
19427016	Effect of pest controlling neem (Azadirachta indica A. Juss) and mata-raton (Gliricidia sepium Jacquin) leaf extracts on emission of green house gases and inorganic-N content in urea-amended soil.	Extracts of neem (Azadirachta indica A. Juss.) and Gliricidia sepium Jacquin, locally known as 'mata-raton', are used to control pests of maize. Their application, however, is known to affect soil microorganisms. We investigated if these extracts affected emissions of methane (CH4), carbon dioxide (CO2) and nitrous oxide (N2O), important greenhouse gases, and dynamics of soil inorganic N. Soil was treated with extracts of neem, mata-raton or lambda-cyhalothrin, used as chemical control. The soil was amended with or without urea and incubated at 40% and 100% water holding capacity (WHC). Concentrations of ammonium (NH4+), nitrite (NO2(-)) and nitrate (NO3(-)) and emissions of CH4, CO2 and N2O were monitored for 7d. Treating urea-amended soil with extracts of neem, mata-raton or lambda-cyhalothrin reduced the emission of CO2 significantly compared to the untreated soil with the largest decrease found in the latter. Oxidation of CH4 was inhibited by extracts of neem in the unamended soil, and by neem, mata-raton and lambda-cyhalothrin in the urea-amended soil compared to the untreated soil. Neem, mata-raton and lambda-cyhalothrin reduced the N2O emission from the unamended soil incubated at 40%WHC compared to the untreated soil. Extracts of neem, mata-raton and lambda-cyhalothrin had no significant effect on dynamics of NH4(+), NO2(-) and NO(3)(-). It was found that emission of CO2 and oxidation of CH4 was inhibited in the urea-amended soil treated with extracts of neem, mata-raton and lambda-cyhalothrin, but ammonification, N2O emission and nitrification were not affected.	1	pesticide
19440259	Alternate row placement is ineffective for cultural control of Meloidogyne incognita in cotton.	The objective of this study was to determine if planting cotton into the space between the previous year's rows reduces crop loss due to Meloidogyne incognita compared to planting in the same row every year. Row placement had a significant (P </= 0.05) effect on nematode population levels only on 8 July 2005. Plots receiving 1,3-dichloropropene plus aldicarb had lower nematode population levels than non-fumigated plots on 24 May and 8 July in 2005, but not in 2004. The effect of nematicide treatment on nematode populations was not affected by row placement. Row placement did not have a significant effect on root galling or yield in 2004 or 2005. Nematicide treatment decreased root galling in all years, and the decrease was not influenced by row placement. Yield was increased by nematicide application in 2004 and 2005, and the increase was not affected by row placement. Percentage yield loss was not affected by row placement. Changing the placement of rows reduced nematode population levels only on one sampling date in one year, but end-of-season root galling and lint yield were not affected by changing the placement of rows, nor was the effect of fumigation on yield influenced by row placement. Therefore, row placement is unlikely to contribute to M. incognita management in cotton.	1	pesticide
19440498	Oxidative and excitatory mechanisms of developmental neurotoxicity: transcriptional profiles for chlorpyrifos, diazinon, dieldrin, and divalent nickel in PC12 cells.	BACKGROUND: Oxidative stress and excitotoxicity underlie the developmental neurotoxicity of numerous chemicals. OBJECTIVES: We compared the effects of organophosphates (chlorpyrifos and diazinon), an organo-chlorine (dieldrin), and a metal [divalent nickel (Ni2+)] to determine how these mechanisms contribute to similar or dissimilar neurotoxic outcomes. METHODS: We used PC12 cells as a model of developing neurons and evaluated transcriptional profiles for genes for oxidative stress responses and glutamate receptors. RESULTS: Chlorpyrifos had a greater effect on oxidative-stress-related genes in differentiating cells compared with the undifferentiated state. Chlorpyrifos and diazinon showed significant concordance in their effects on glutathione-related genes, but they were negatively correlated for effects on catalase and superoxide dismutase isoforms and had no concordance for effects on ionotropic glutamate receptors. Surprisingly, the correlations were stronger between diazinon and dieldrin than between the two organophosphates. The effects of Ni2+ were the least similar for genes related to oxidative stress but had significant concordance with dieldrin for effects on glutamate receptors. CONCLUSIONS: Our results point to underlying mechanisms by which different organophosphates produce disparate neurotoxic outcomes despite their shared property as cholinesterase inhibitors. Further, apparently unrelated neurotoxicants may produce similar outcomes because of convergence on oxidative stress and excitotoxicity. The combined use of cell cultures and microarrays points to specific end points that can distinguish similarities and disparities in the effects of diverse developmental neurotoxicants.	1	pesticide
19449650	Influence of posttreatment temperature on the toxicity of insecticides against Diaphorina citri (Hemiptera: Psyllidae).	The psyllid Diaphorina citri Kuwayama (Hemiptera: Psyllidae) is one of the most important pests of citrus worldwide because it efficiently vectors three bacteria in the genus Candidatus Liberibacter that cause the devastating citrus greening disease (huanglongbing). Current management practices for this insect pest rely on multiple sprays of foliar insecticides and one or two applications of soil systemic insecticides per season. Effective psyllid and disease management in Florida requires insecticide applications throughout the entire season over wide ranging temperature and environmental conditions. Using a petri dish bioassay technique, the effect of posttreatment temperature (range, 17-37 degrees C) on the toxicity of selected organophosphate (chlorpyrifos and dimethoate), carbamate (carbaryl), avermectin (abamectin), pyrethroid (bifenthrin, zeta-cypermethrin, fenpropathrin, and lambda-cyhalothrin), and neonicotinoid (acetamiprid, imidacloprid, and thiamethoxam) insecticides was evaluated against adult D. citri. The toxicity of both organophosphates showed a positive temperature correlation within the 17-37 degrees C range. Similarly, carbaryl (carbamate) and abamectin (avermectin) exhibited increased toxicity with increasing temperature from 17 to 37 degrees C, with abamectin showing higher overall temperature-dependent toxicity against D. citri adults than carbaryl. With the exception of bifenthrin, which showed a positive temperature-dependent toxicity correlation between 27 and 37 degrees C, all other pyrethroids tested exhibited a negative correlation over the temperature range examined. The toxicity of fenpropathrin and lambda-cyhalothrin dramatically decreased with increasing temperature from 17 to 37 degrees C. The neonicotinoids imidacloprid and thiamethoxam exhibited a mixed response to increasing temperature, whereas acetamiprid showed a positive temperature correlation. However, all three neonicotinoids showed positive temperature-dependent toxicity correlations against D. citri adults over the temperature range tested. These data will enable citrus growers to choose the most effective insecticides for D. citri control from the various classes currently available depending on the prevailing temperature conditions.	1	pesticide
19459145	Numerical variations and spontaneous malformations in the early embryos of the Korean salamander, Hynobius leechii, in the farmlands of Korea.	Embryo sacs of the Korean salamander, Hynobius leechii, were collected from nine farmlands in Gyeongsangnam-Do, Korea, in early spring of 2002 and 2004. The variations in the number of embryos within each embryo sac and the mortality and abnormality rates among the embryos were investigated. We also analyzed the patterns of spontaneous embryonic malformations and the residual chemicals in the soil of the habitats using multiple-residue GC/MS. A total of 79,195 embryos were obtained from 1933 embryo sacs. There were regional variations in the length of individual embryo sacs and the number of embryos in each. The longest embryo sac averaged by region measured 20.67 cm ± 3.51 and was obtained from 2-Banseong in 2002. Of the embryos collected, 13.71% either died or stopped developing, and 3.54% of the hatched embryos developed abnormally; the latter were classified according to the patterns of malformation. External gill dysplasia was the most frequent malformation, and caudal dysplasia, abdominal blisters, and dysplasia of the fin were also observed frequently. Histopathological analysis showed neural tube abnormalities, acrania, curved notochords, thyroid teratoma, and various other kinds of endodermal developmental abnormalities. In the analysis of the residual pesticides in the soil, carbofuran, endosulfan-sulfate, and endosulfan-β were detected in the regions with high mortality and malformation rates. These results indicate that various agricultural chemicals and other unknown factors may cause the aforementioned forms of spontaneous malformations in the embryos of Hynobius leechii.	1	pesticide
19476963	A new fluorescent oligonucleotide probe for in situ detection of s-triazine-degrading Rhodococcus wratislaviensis in contaminated groundwater and soil samples.	A bacterial strain (FPA1) capable of using terbuthylazine, simazine, atrazine, 2-hydroxysimazine, deethylatrazine, isopropylamine or ethylamine as its sole carbon source was isolated from a shallow aquifer chronically contaminated with s-triazine herbicides. Based on its 16S rDNA sequence analysis, the strain FPA1 was identified as Rhodococcus wratislaviensis. The disappearance time of 50% of the initial terbuthylazine concentration in the presence of this strain (DT(50)) was 62days. This strain was also able to mineralise the [U-ring (14)C] triazine-ring, albeit at a slow rate. A 16S rRNA target oligonucleotide probe (RhLu) was designed, and the FISH protocol was optimised, in order to detect R. wratislaviensis in s-triazine-contaminated sites. The RhLu probe gave a positive signal (expressed as % of total DAPI-positive cells) in both the groundwater (2.19+/-0.41%) and soil (2.10+/-0.96%) samples analysed. Using the RhLu probe, R. wratislaviensis can be readily detected, and its population dynamics can be easily monitored, in soil and in water ecosystems contaminated with s-triazine. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report showing the isolation, from groundwater, of a bacterial strain able to degrade s-triazines.	1	pesticide
19486411	Predictive assessment of ochratoxin A accumulation in grape juice based-medium by Aspergillus carbonarius using neural networks.	AIMS: To study the ability of multi-layer perceptron artificial neural networks (MLP-ANN) and radial-basis function networks (RBFNs) to predict ochratoxin A (OTA) concentration over time in grape-based cultures of Aspergillus carbonarius under different conditions of temperature, water activity (a(w)) and sub-inhibitory doses of the fungicide carbendazim. METHODS AND RESULTS: A strain of A. carbonarius was cultured in a red grape juice-based medium. The input variables to the network were temperature (20-28 degrees C), a(w) (0.94-0.98), carbendazim level (0-450 ng ml(-1)) and time (3-15 days after the lag phase). The output of the ANNs was OTA level determined by liquid chromatography. Three algorithms were comparatively tested for MLP. The lowest error was obtained by MLP without validation. Performance decreased when hold-out validation was accomplished but the risk of over-fitting is also lower. The best MLP architecture was determined. RBFNs provided similar performances but a substantially higher number of hidden nodes were needed. CONCLUSIONS: ANNs are useful to predict OTA level in grape juice cultures of A. carbonarius over a range of a(w), temperature and carbendazim doses. SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: This is a pioneering study on the application of ANNs to forecast OTA accumulation in food based substrates. These models can be similarly applied to other mycotoxins and fungal species.	1	pesticide
19490841	Phenylpyrazole insecticides induce cytotoxicity by altering mechanisms involved in cellular energy supply in the human epithelial cell model Caco-2.	Phenylpyrazoles are relatively new insecticides designed to manage problematic insect resistance and public health hazards encountered with older pesticide families. In vitro cytotoxicity induced by the phenylpyrazole insecticides, Ethiprol and Fipronil, and Fipronil metabolites, sulfone and sulfide, was studied in Caco-2 cells. This cellular model was chosen because it made possible to mimic the primary site of oral exposure to xenobiotics, the intestinal epithelium. Assessment of the barrier function of Caco-2 epithelium was assessed by TEER measurement and showed a major loss of barrier integrity after exposure to Fipronil and its metabolites, but not to Ethiprol. The disruption of the epithelial barrier was attributed to severe ATP depletion independent of cell viability, as revealed by LDH release. The origin of energetic metabolism failure was investigated and revealed a transient enhancement of tetrazolium salt reduction and an increase in lactate production by Caco-2 cells, suggesting an increase in glucose metabolism by pesticides. Cellular symptoms observed in these experiments lead us to hypothesize that phenylpyrazole insecticides interacted with mitochondria.	1	pesticide
19491925	Evolution of glyphosate resistance in a Lolium rigidum population by glyphosate selection at sublethal doses.	The majority of the documented cases of field-evolved herbicide-resistant weed biotypes established that single major genes confer glyphosate resistance. However, the contribution of minor genes endowing substantial plant survival at sublethal herbicide doses may be a potential complementary path to herbicide resistance evolution in weed populations under selection. Here, we subjected a number of susceptible individuals of Lolium rigidum to recurrent glyphosate selection to test the potential for sublethal glyphosate doses to additively select for glyphosate resistance. After 3-4 cycles of glyphosate selection in two distinct environments, the progenies of the initially susceptible population were shifted toward glyphosate resistance. The results indicate progressive enrichment of minor gene trait(s) contributing toward plant survival in the glyphosate-selected progenies. After three generations of selection, the estimated LD(50) values were doubled compared with the original population and up to 33% plant survival was obtained in the glyphosate-selected progeny at the recommended glyphosate label rate. This level of resistance probably was the maximum shift achievable with sublethal glyphosate dose selection in this small population. Cross-pollination was a crucial factor enabling the rapid rate of accumulation of minor glyphosate resistance gene trait(s) that are likely to be present at a relatively high frequency in a small susceptible population. The mechanistic basis of the moderate glyphosate resistance level selected by sublethal glyphosate doses remains unknown and warrants future research. Studying the main factors influencing the evolution of resistant weed populations is crucial for understanding, predicting and managing herbicide resistance.	1	pesticide
19499159	A survey of metal and pesticide levels in stormwater retention pond sediments in coastal South Carolina.	During the summer of 2007, sediment samples were collected from 16 stormwater detention ponds and 2 reference ponds located in coastal South Carolina. The sediments were analyzed for more than 30 pesticides with current and historical uses, six polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs), and seven metals. The results are compared with established screening assessment parameters, with copper found to be the contaminant of highest concern. Lead levels were found to correlate well with pond drainage area, while copper and zinc levels correlated with both pond drainage area and pond surface area. Chlorpyrifos levels were found to correlate with pond surface area. Our results also show that ponds draining commercial areas were likely to have higher levels of zinc and lead in the sediments compared to other pond classes.	1	pesticide
19508806	Responsiveness of arthropod herbivores and their natural enemies to modified weed management in corn.	Alteration of weed flora as consequence of the deployment of genetically modified herbicide-tolerant crops may affect higher trophic levels in agrosystems. A 4-yr study is being conducted in Spain to investigate interrelations between weeds and associated arthropods in corn fields. In a first step, the work aimed to detect the most responsive arthropods to weed management changes. To identify the most responsive arthropods, arthropod composition and abundance in herbicide-tolerant corn plots treated twice with glyphosate and untreated plots were compared for 2 yr. Plots were sampled seven times during the season by visual inspection and pitfall and yellow sticky traps to estimate abundance and activity of the main arthropod herbivores, predators, and parasitoids. As intended, the abundance and composition of weed flora was strongly altered by the differential herbicide treatments. Several groups of arthropods responded to the weed changes but in variable directions. Whereas leafhoppers and aphids were more abundant on herbicide-treated plots, the contrary was found for phytophagous thrips. Among predators, Orius sp., spiders, and trombidids were more abundant on treated plots, whereas nabids and carabids were more abundant in untreated plots; the same case was found for carabids and spiders caught in pitfall traps. Among parasitoids, ichneumonids were more abundant in untreated plots and mymarids in treated plots. These results cannot be interpreted in terms of nontarget effects of postemergence treatments with broad-spectrum herbicides; for this, a comparison with conventional weed management practices should be done and this is the current step in the study.	1	pesticide
19515599	Ultrasonic destruction of pesticide contaminants in slurries.	The use of high power ultrasound to destroy pesticide contaminants in sand slurries is reported. Small quantities of DDT, chlordane, atrazine, 2,4,5-T and endosulfan in solvent were added to washed, screened sand and deposited onto the sand by slow evaporation of the solvent. Fifty wt.% slurries for all five pesticides and 20 wt.% slurries of atrazine and 2,4,5-T were sonicated for periods up to 30 min and samples were withdrawn at various intervals and analysed to follow the kinetics of contaminant destruction. Seventy percent destruction of the contaminant was obtained for four of the 50 wt.% slurries with approximately 50% destruction of 2,4,5-T in 10 min of sonication whereas, in the 20 wt.% slurries of atrazine and 2,4,5-T, and 75% and 85% reduction, respectively, was obtained in 10 min. We postulate that better stirring of the slurry will improve these rates of contaminant destruction.	1	pesticide
19520412	Dechlorination of chloroacetanilide herbicides by plant growth regulator sodium bisulfite.	Chloroacetanilide herbicides are frequently detected in groundwater and surface waters, and pose high risks to aquatic biota. In this study, sodium bisulfite (NaHSO(3)), a plant growth regulator used in China, was used to remove three chloroacetanilide herbicides including alachlor, acetochlor and S-metolachlor. These herbicides were rapidly dechlorinated by NaHSO(3) in neutral conditions. The dechlorination was accelerated with increasing pH, temperature and NaHSO(3) concentrations. Kinetic analysis and mass spectrum identification revealed that the reaction followed S(N)2 nucleophilic substitution, in which the chlorine was replaced by the reactive specie sulfite. Alachlor and its isomer acetochlor had similar reaction rates, whereas they were more readily transformed than S-metolachlor that had larger steric hindrance and weaker electrophilicity. The transformation products were chloroacetanilide ethane sulfonic acids (ESAs), which were also encountered as major metabolites of these herbicides in natural environment via common metabolic pathways and were less toxic to green algae compared to the parent herbicides. These results indicate that NaHSO(3) can accelerate transformation of chloroacetanilide herbicides to the less toxic transformation products by nucleophilic substitution and dechlorination in aquatic environment. NaHSO(3) can be potentially used for the removal of chloroacetanilide herbicides from wastewater effluent, spill sites and accidental discharge.	1	pesticide
19530717	Effect of vermicomposts from wastes of the wine and alcohol industries in the persistence and distribution of imidacloprid and diuron on agricultural soils.	The persistence and distribution of diuron (D) and imidacloprid (I) in soils amended or not with winery vermicomposts were recorded for several months. Sandy loam (S1) and silty clay loam (S2) soils with organic carbon contents of <1% were selected. After incubation, around 78% of I remained in the soil and no metabolites were found. Diuron was dissipated more rapidly except in the unamended soil S1 with DT(50) values of 259 days. The addition of vermicomposts to S1 soil decreased the persistence of D, and high amounts of DPMU (40%) and DPU (20%) metabolites were found. In unamended and amended S2 soils, the persistence of D was lower than in S1 (DT(50) < 42 days) but only DPMU was determined (up to 5%). Different simulation models from FOCUS guidelines were applied to the experimental data. No relationship between pesticide degradation and soil enzyme activities was found.	1	pesticide
19546036	Class-specific immunoaffinity monolith for efficient on-line clean-up of pyrethroids followed by high-performance liquid chromatography analysis.	A class-specific monolithic immunoaffinity column was developed for on-line clean-up of pyrethroid insecticides in complex samples. Deltamethrin was oxidized with ozone to generate the hapten of (RS)-alpha-cyano-3-phenoxybenzyl (RS)-cis,trans-2,2-dimethyl-3-formyl-cyclopropane carboxylate. Class-specific antibodies against pyrethroids were produced using the conjugate of above hapten with bovine serum albumin as the immunogen. Poly(ethylene dimethacrylate-glycidyl methacrylate) monolith was synthesized in a 50mmx4.6mm i.d. stainless steel cartridge with two auxiliary pipette tips. The polymerization method was proved to be economic and reproducible. Antibodies against pyrethroids were covalently immobilized onto the monolithic support via Schiff base reaction. With a column-switching valve system, the immunoaffinity monolith (IAM) could be readily adapted to the reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) system. Under the optimum loading, washing and eluting conditions, the IAM specifically retained deltamethrin, flumethrin, flucythrinate and cis/trans permethrin, which were further baseline separated by C18 column using acetonitrile-water (83:17, V/V) as the mobile phase at a flow rate of 1.0mL/min. The established system provides a highly efficient approach for high-throughput on-line clean-up of pyrethroid in various samples.	1	pesticide
19609395	Comparison of gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and gas chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry with electron ionization and negative-ion chemical ionization for analyses of pesticides at trace levels in atmospheric samples.	A comparison of detection limits of gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) in selected ion monitoring (SIM) with gas chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (GC-MS/MS) in selected reaction monitoring (SRM) mode with both electron ionization (EI) and negative-ion chemical ionization (NCI) are presented for over 50 pesticides ranging from organochlorines (OCs), organophosphorus pesticides (OPs) and pre-emergent herbicides used in the Canadian prairies (triallate, trifluralin, ethalfluralin). The developed GC-EI/SIM, GC-NCI/SIM, and GC-NCI/SRM are suitable for the determination of pesticides in air sample extracts at concentrations <100 pg microL(-1) (<100 pg m(-3) in air). No one method could be used to analyze the range of pre-emergent herbicides, OPs, and OCs investigated. In general GC-NCI/SIM provided the lowest method detection limits (MDLs commonly 2.5-10 pg microL(-1)) along with best confirmation (<25% RSD of ion ratio), while GC-NCI/SRM is recommended for use where added selectivity or confirmation is required (such as parathion-ethyl, tokuthion, carbofenothion). GC-EI/SRM at concentration <100 pg microL(-1) was not suitable for most pesticides. GC-EI/SIM was more prone to interference issues than NCI methods, but gave good sensitivity (MDLs 1-10 pg microL(-1)) for pesticides with poor NCI response (OPs: sulfotep, phorate, aspon, ethion, and OCs: alachlor, aldrin, perthane, and DDE, DDD, DDT).	1	pesticide
19629363	Screening of cyanobacteria for phycobiliproteins and effect of different environmental stress on its yield.	Among 18 strains, cyanobacterium Anabaena NCCU-9 contained the highest amount of phycobiliprotein (91 mg/g dry cell weights). Therefore, the effects of various environmental stresses were investigated on its phycobiliprotein production potential. The ideal conditions observed were 30 degrees C, 25 micromol photons/m2/s, white light, pH-8, 16:8 light and dark regimes, nitrogen free medium and 10 mM sodium chloride. Among three pesticides studied malathion showed highest toxicity. Under heavy metal stress the order of toxicity was chromium > cadmium > lead > nickel > copper > zinc.	1	pesticide
19648360	Glyphosate resistance as a novel select-agent-compliant, non-antibiotic-selectable marker in chromosomal mutagenesis of the essential genes asd and dapB of Burkholderia pseudomallei.	Genetic manipulation of the category B select agents Burkholderia pseudomallei and Burkholderia mallei has been stifled due to the lack of compliant selectable markers. Hence, there is a need for additional select-agent-compliant selectable markers. We engineered a selectable marker based on the gat gene (encoding glyphosate acetyltransferase), which confers resistance to the common herbicide glyphosate (GS). To show the ability of GS to inhibit bacterial growth, we determined the effective concentrations of GS against Escherichia coli and several Burkholderia species. Plasmids based on gat, flanked by unique flip recombination target (FRT) sequences, were constructed for allelic-replacement. Both allelic-replacement approaches, one using the counterselectable marker pheS and the gat-FRT cassette and one using the DNA incubation method with the gat-FRT cassette, were successfully utilized to create deletions in the asd and dapB genes of wild-type B. pseudomallei strains. The asd and dapB genes encode an aspartate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase (BPSS1704, chromosome 2) and dihydrodipicolinate reductase (BPSL2941, chromosome 1), respectively. Mutants unable to grow on media without diaminopimelate (DAP) and other amino acids of this pathway were PCR verified. These mutants displayed cellular morphologies consistent with the inability to cross-link peptidoglycan in the absence of DAP. The B. pseudomallei 1026b Deltaasd::gat-FRT mutant was complemented with the B. pseudomallei asd gene on a site-specific transposon, mini-Tn7-bar, by selecting for the bar gene (encoding bialaphos/PPT resistance) with PPT. We conclude that the gat gene is one of very few appropriate, effective, and beneficial compliant markers available for Burkholderia select-agent species. Together with the bar gene, the gat cassette will facilitate various genetic manipulations of Burkholderia select-agent species.	1	pesticide
19662649	Spatially resolved quantification of agrochemicals on plant surfaces using energy dispersive X-ray microanalysis.	BACKGROUND: In the present study the principle of energy dispersive X-ray microanalysis (EDX), i.e. the detection of elements based on their characteristic X-rays, was used to localise and quantify organic and inorganic pesticides on enzymatically isolated fruit cuticles. Pesticides could be discriminated from the plant surface because of their distinctive elemental composition. RESULTS: Findings confirm the close relation between net intensity (NI) and area covered by the active ingredient (AI area). Using wide and narrow concentration ranges of glyphosate and glufosinate, respectively, results showed that quantification of AI requires the selection of appropriate regression equations while considering NI, peak-to-background (P/B) ratio, and AI area. The use of selected internal standards (ISs) such as Ca(NO(3))(2) improved the accuracy of the quantification slightly but led to the formation of particular, non-typical microstructured deposits. The suitability of SEM-EDX as a general technique to quantify pesticides was evaluated additionally on 14 agrochemicals applied at diluted or regular concentration. CONCLUSION: Among the pesticides tested, spatial localisation and quantification of AI amount could be done for inorganic copper and sulfur as well for the organic agrochemicals glyphosate, glufosinate, bromoxynil and mancozeb.	1	pesticide
19666090	Chlordecone increased subcellular distribution of scavenger receptor class B type II to murine hepatic microsomes without altering cytosolic cholesterol binding proteins.	Pretreatment of male C57BL/6 mice with low doses of the persistent organochlorine pesticide, chlordecone (CD), stimulated biliary excretion of exogenous cholesterol (CH) up to 3-fold. Increased biliary excretion occurred without changes in hepatic ATP-binding cassette transporter G8 (ABCG8) of the bile canaliculus or scavenger receptor class B type I (SR-BI) of the sinusoidal surface. A variety of tissues express scavenger receptor class B type II (SR-BII) and this protein was identified as a splice variant from the SR-BI gene. Although the function of SR-BII has not been elucidated it may play a role in CH homeostasis and trafficking distinctly different than SR-BI. Western blotting demonstrated that a single dose of CD promoted subcellular distribution of SR-BII to murine hepatic microsomes about 2.2-fold when compared to controls without effect on liver crude membrane SR-BII content. This was consistent with increased vesicular CH trafficking. Relative quantification of hepatic cytosolic proteins in a fraction that sequestered [(14)C]CH by mass spectrometry (MS) indicated no role for cytosolic CH binding proteins in CD altered CH homeostasis. Western blotting verified no effect of CD on liver fatty acid-binding protein (L-FABP) in cytosol. MS detected a statistically significant increase in myosin-9, which was also consistent with increased vesicular trafficking.	1	pesticide
19682500	Reversal of chlorpyrifos neurobehavioral teratogenicity in mice by nicotine administration and neural stem cell transplantation.	Identifying the mechanisms underlying the adverse effects of developmental neurotoxicants enables the design of therapies that can potentially reverse neurobehavioral deficits in adulthood. We administered chlorpyrifos (CPF), a model organophosphate pesticide to pregnant mice and identified visuospatial deficits in adult offspring using performance in the Morris maze. We then evaluated two strategies to reverse the effects, nicotine administration and transplantation of neural stem cells. Daily administration of nicotine prior to behavioral testing did not alter maze performance by itself, but completely reversed the deficits evoked by prenatal CPF exposure. Similarly, control animals grafted with neural stem cells in adolescence did not show any alterations in behavioral performance as adults, but the grafts completely reversed the effects of prenatal CPF treatment. This study thus provides a model for the development and application of both pharmacologic and cell-based therapies to offset the effects of neurobehavioral teratogens.	1	pesticide
19708390	Use of engineered enzymes to identify organophosphate and pyrethroid-related toxicity in toxicity identification evaluations.	Engineered variants of a carboxylesterase from Lucilia cuprina (E3) and a phosphotriesterase from Agrobacterium radiobacter (OpdA) with enhanced hydrolytic activities against pyrethroid and organophosphate pesticides were evaluated as a toxicity identification evaluation (TIE) manipulation. Reduction in toxicity in the presence of the enzyme provides an indication that the toxicant is the enzyme's target substrate. Carboxy/esterase E3 variants were evaluated to determine if the enzymes could mitigate toxicity of pyrethroids to the amphipod, Hyalella azteca. Enzymes were able to achieve 12-70-fold reduction in toxicity for bifenthrin, cyfluthrin, and cypermethrin in water. Only a 2-fold reduction in toxicity was observed with pyrethroid-contaminated sediment though the phosphotriesterase OpdA achieved at least a 35-fold reduction in toxicity from the organophosphate chlorpyrifos in sediment. Tests with urban runoff samples and agriculture-affected sediments demonstrated that the enzymes could be useful in TIEs to identify pesticide-related toxicity. The approach promises to be a useful TIE tool for organophosphate and pyrethroid pesticides, particularly in a water matrix, and potentially could be used for identification of toxicity attributable to other pesticides.	1	pesticide
19719567	Effect of long-term herbicide applications on the bacterial community structure and function in an agricultural soil.	Little is known about the chronic effect of herbicides on the soil microbial community, with most studies focusing on acute impacts. In this study, we investigated the effect of 20 years of atrazine and metolachlor application on the community structure, abundance and function of bacterial groups in the bulk soil of a maize monoculture. Group-specific PCR-DGGE (polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis) of 16S rRNA genes was used to characterize the composition of the microbial community. Primers specific for the entire bacterial group, as well as for the Acidobacterium group, the actinomycetes, the ammonium oxidizers, and the Type I and II methanotrophs were used in the PCR-DGGE analysis. Cluster analysis of the DGGE patterns obtained with the different primer sets differentiated between the herbicide-treated and the non-treated control soil. In particular the methanotrophic community differed, with three bands (phylotypes) being absent (or showing a lower intensity) in the DGGE patterns of the herbicide-treated soils compared to the patterns of the control soil. The differences in the methanotrophic community structure were not reflected in the methane oxidation capacity, which was similar for the two treatments. The prevalence of methanotrophs as evaluated with real-time PCR analysis also did not differ between the herbicide-treated and non-treated soil. Our results indicate that the long-term use of the herbicides atrazine and metolachlor resulted in an altered soil community structure, in particular for the methanotrophic bacteria. These observed changes did not cause a decreased community function (methane oxidation), probably because the total abundance of the methanotrophs in the soil system was preserved.	1	pesticide
19720454	Rhizosphere remediation of chlorpyrifos in mycorrhizospheric soil using ryegrass.	The potential of ryegrass for rhizosphere bioremediation of chlorpyrifos in mycorrhizal soil was investigated by the green house pot culture experiments. The pot cultured soil amended at initial chlorpyrifos concentration of 10mg/kg was observed to be degraded completely within 7 days where the rest amended concentrations (25-100mg/kg) decreased rapidly under the influence of ryegrass mycorrhizosphere as the incubation progressed till 28 days. This bioremediation of chlorpyrifos in soil is attributed to the microorganisms associated with the roots in the ryegrass rhizosphere, therefore the microorganisms surviving in the rhizospheric soil spiked at highest concentration (100mg/kg) was assessed and used for isolation of chlorpyrifos degrading microorganisms. The potential degrader identified by 16s rDNA analysis using BLAST technique was Pseudomonas nitroreducens PS-2. Further, bioaugmentation for the enhanced chlorpyrifos biodegradation was performed using PS-2 as an inoculum in the experimental set up similar to the earlier. The heterotrophic bacteria and fungi were also enumerated from the inoculated and non-inoculated rhizospheric soils. In bioaugmentation experiments, the percentage dissipation of chlorpyrifos was 100% in the inoculated rhizospheric soil as compared to 76.24, 90.36 and 90.80% in the non-inoculated soil for initial concentrations of 25, 50 and 100mg/kg at the 14th, 21st and 28th day intervals respectively.	1	pesticide
19721356	Inhibition and prevention efficacy against mosquito bloodsucking and Dirofilaria immitis infection by administration of topical insecticide.	Inhibition and prevention of mosquito bloodsucking by a topical insecticide, and the consequent infection of Dirofilaria immitis were evaluated using a product containing 10% w/w imidacloprid plus 50% w/w permethrin (I-P solution). Nine healthy beagle dogs divided in three groups of 3 dogs each were administered I-P solution on day 3 (group 1), day 36 (group 2) and not administered (group 3 as a control) before starting the experimental infection. The results showed that the mosquito bloodsucking rate was significantly lower, 12.1% in group 1 (p<0.05) and 11.1% in group 2 (p<0.05), than the 40.6% in group 3, meaning that the inhibition rates in groups 1 and 2 against group 3 were 70.2% and 72.7%. The infection rate of experimental D. immitis infection was 33% in group 1, 33% in group 2 and 100% in group 3, meaning that the prevention rates in groups 1 and 2 against group 3 were 67% and 67%.	1	pesticide
19733738	Combating matrix effects in LC/ESI/MS: the extrapolative dilution approach.	Liquid chromatography electrospray mass spectrometry--LC/ESI/MS--a primary tool for analysis of low volatility compounds in difficult matrices--suffers from the matrix effects in the ESI ionization. It is well known that matrix effects can be reduced by sample dilution. However, the efficiency of simple sample dilution is often limited, in particular by the limit of detection of the method, and can strongly vary from sample to sample. In this study matrix effect is investigated as the function of dilution. It is demonstrated that in some cases dilution can eliminate matrix effect, but often it is just reduced. Based on these findings we propose a new quantitation method based on consecutive dilutions of the sample and extrapolation of the analyte content to the infinite dilution, i.e. to matrix-free solution. The method was validated for LC/ESI/MS analysis of five pesticides (methomyl, thiabendazole, aldicarb, imazalil, methiocarb) in five matrices (tomato, cucumber, apple, rye and garlic) at two concentration levels (0.5 and 5.0 mg kg(-1)). Agreement between the analyzed and spiked concentrations was found for all samples. It was demonstrated that in terms of accuracy of the obtained results the proposed extrapolative dilution approach works distinctly better than simple sample dilution. The main use of this approach is envisaged for (a) method development/validation to determine the extent of matrix effects and the ways of overcoming them and (b) as a second step of analysis in the case of samples having analyte contents near the maximum residue limits (MRL).	1	pesticide
19746443	Assessment of organochlorine pesticides and metals in ring-tailed lemurs (Lemur catta) at Beza Mahafaly Special Reserve, Madagascar.	Like most of Madagascar's endemic primates, ring-tailed lemurs (Lemur catta) face a number of threats to their survival. Although habitat loss is of greatest concern, other anthropogenic factors including environmental contamination may also affect lemur health and survival. In this study, we examined ring-tailed lemurs from the Beza Mahafaly Special Reserve (BMSR), southern Madagascar for exposure to organochlorine (OC) pesticides and metals and examined differences in contaminant concentrations between sexes and among age groups, troops, and habitats. A total of 14 pesticides and 13 metals was detected in lemur blood (24 individuals) and hair (65 individuals) samples, respectively. p,p'-DDT, heptachlor, aldrin, heptachlor epoxide, endrin aldehyde, and endrin were among the most prevalent pesticides detected. Surprisingly, the persistent metabolite of p,p'-DDT, p,p'-DDE, was not detected. The most commonly detected metals were aluminum, zinc, boron, phosphorus, silicon, and copper, whereas metals considered more hazardous to wildlife (e.g. arsenic, cadmium, lead, selenium, vanadium) were not found above detection limits. Overall, concentrations of OC pesticides and metals were low and similar to those considered to be background concentrations in other studies examining the ecotoxicology of wild mammals. Few inter-sex, -age, -troop, and -habitat differences in contaminant concentrations were observed, suggesting a uniform distribution of contaminants within the reserve. Several statistically significant relationships between lemur body size and contaminant concentrations were observed, but owing to the lack of supportive data regarding contaminant exposure in wild primates, the biological significance of these findings remains uncertain. Results of this study document exposure of ring-tailed lemurs at BMSR to multiple OC pesticides and metals and provide essential baseline data for future health and toxicological evaluations of lemurs and other wild primates, especially those in regions with expanding agricultural and mining operations.	1	pesticide
19748741	Effects of fipronil (active ingredient of Frontline) on salivary gland cells of Rhipicephalus sanguineus females (Latreille, 1806) (Acari: Ixodidae).	The present study analyzed the effects of the chemical compound fipronil, active ingredient of Frontline (acaricide and insecticide), on the salivary glands of unfed and semi-engorged female Rhipicephalus sanguineus tick. Unfed females were only exposed to the concentration of 1 ppm of fipronil, while semi-engorged females were treated with fipronil in three concentrations: 1 ppm, 5 ppm, and 10 ppm (distilled water was used as control). The histological and histochemical results revealed significant changes caused by this compound in the morphology and physiology of the gland tissue of unfed and semi-engorged females. In unfed females, the morphological changes in type I acini were characterized by an increase in size and diameter of the lumen. These changes are probably associated with the excretory function, indicating that type I acini might be responsible for eliminating this xenobiotic from the system of the parasite. In semi-engorged females, fipronil did not interfere in the cell death, which in these individuals occurred by apoptosis. However, it accelerated salivary gland degeneration, as the extent of damage increased along with the concentrations of the product. Our results clearly showed that fipronil interferes with the process of engorgement in females that consequently is reflected in the reproductive process, decreasing or even halting egg laying, and resulting in less blood losses for the hosts and reducing the transmission of pathogens through these glands.	1	pesticide
19874188	Wash-resistance and field efficacy of Olyset net, a permethrin-incorporated long-lasting insecticidal netting, against Anopheles minimus-transmitted malaria in Assam, Northeastern India.	INTRODUCTION: The long-lasting insecticidal nets are ready-to-use, pretreated nets, which do not require retreatment for 4-5 years. Olyset nets that are made of high-density polyethylene monofilament yarn with 2% w/w permethrin incorporated (corresponding to 1 g/m(2)) are type-2 in which insecticide is incorporated into the polymers and are wash resistant. In these, insecticide migrates to the surface of the netting fiber to be bioavailable against mosquitoes and other insect pests. STUDY SITE AND OBJECTIVES: The present study was a village scale, field-based trial that was conducted in Plasmodium falciparum predominant area of Assam to assess feasibility, acceptability, and sustainability of this intervention against vector populations and disease transmission. We here report the research findings of Olyset net as an intervention against Anopheles minimus-transmitted malaria in foothill area of Assam for the first year of observations beginning July 2005 till June 2006. RESULTS: An. minimus, the mosquito vector species, was observed to be fully susceptible to permethrin. Follow-up investigations revealed that An. minimus mosquitoes had virtually disappeared in Olyset net villages, which was corroborated by data on human bait mosquito-landing catches. There was a consistent decline in the malarial incidence in Olyset net intervention villages, and the overall impact on the malarial transmission was significant compared to untreated net and no-net control villages for the corresponding study period. The bioavailability of insecticide on Olyset netting fiber was consistent (100% kill effect) up to 10 months of monitoring, and was observed to be wash resistant even after the 20th wash at fortnightly intervals. CONCLUSIONS: The Olyset nets were safe to use, wash resistant, and assessed to be operationally feasible, community-based intervention for sustainable management of disease vectors against malaria. Community compliance and acceptance was high, and users reported decreased nuisance due to biting mosquitoes.	1	pesticide
19879849	Resistance to the organophosphate temephos: mechanisms, evolution and reversion in an Aedes aegypti laboratory strain from Brazil.	Insecticide resistance is one of the main problems in vector control programs. Because insects have developed resistance to all classes of available chemical insecticides, a proper surveillance and management of resistance in areas where these compounds are being utilized is crucial for the success of control programs. Since the mechanisms and molecular bases of resistance are various, they must be characterized to allow efficient monitoring strategies. Here we report the establishment of an Aedes aegypti strain resistant to temephos, named RecR, selected under laboratory conditions. The parental A. aegypti population was obtained from eggs collected in an area where temephos had been used for 8 years, and presented a baseline resistance ratio (RR) of 7. After 17 generations under selective pressure, the RR has increased to 180. Biochemical assays indicate that metabolic mechanisms are involved on temephos resistance in the selected strain. These experiments showed that, compared to the susceptible colony Rockefeller, RecR present higher activity of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), alpha- and beta-esterases, and, to a lesser degree, mixed function oxidases (MFO). At the 14th or 17th generations, there was no cross resistance of these insects to deltamethrin, cypermethrin and malathion, while a low resistance level (RR=3) was observed for pyriproxyfen, a juvenile hormone analogue. Experiments on resistance reversal, performed through three different field simulated schemes using the resistant strain, showed that temephos susceptibility can be recovered. The establishment of an A. aegypti colony resistant to temephos is extremely valuable for a deeper understanding of resistance mechanisms and thus for further improvements in control strategies against this vector. With the urgent need on improving methodologies to monitor resistance, molecular studies such as microarrays, and resistant colonies such as RecR will certainly hasten such studies.	1	pesticide
19908228	Insecticide resistance traits differ among and within host races in Aphis gossypii.	BACKGROUND: The polyphagous cotton-melon aphid Aphis gossypii Glover is structured into geographically widespread host races comprising a few clones specialised on Cucurbitaceae, cotton, eggplant or pepper. To assess insecticide resistance among and within host races, leaf disc bioassays were conducted on aphid clones collected from Cucurbitaceae (genotypes C4 and C9), cotton (genotypes Burk and Ivo), eggplant (genotype Auber) and pepper (genotype PsP4). Molecular diagnostic (PCR-RFLP) and enzyme assays were also performed to detect the basic mechanisms underlying insecticide resistance. RESULTS: All six clones were susceptible to acetamiprid (neonicotinoid) or carbosulfan (carbamate). Conversely, all clones were resistant to dimethoate (organophosphate) (RF = 4.1-38.1) and carried mutation S431F in the acetylcholinesterase gene. Auber, PsP4 and Burk also carried mutation A302S in this gene, which possibly conferred moderate resistance (RF = 3.7-6.8) to profenofos and monocrotophos (organophosphates). Auber and Burk were highly resistant (RF = 41.2 and 473 respectively) to cypermethrin (pyrethroid). This resistance was likely associated with point mutation super-kdr (M918L) in the voltage-gated sodium channel gene (para gene) or metabolic detoxification mediated by esterase and oxidase enzymes. CONCLUSION: Multiple resistance to a broad range of insecticides and multiple mechanisms of resistance in some clones could explain to some extent the low genetic diversity observed within A. gossypii host races.	1	pesticide
19913234	Multi-residue analysis of 30 currently used pesticides in fine airborne particulate matter (PM 2.5) by microwave-assisted extraction and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	A confirmatory and rapid procedure has been developed for the determination of 30 currently used pesticides (CUP) in fine airborne particulate matter (PM 2.5) at trace level. The proposed method includes extraction of PM 2.5-bound pesticides by microwave-assisted extraction (MAE) followed by a direct injection into LC-MS/MS. The main parameters affecting the MAE extraction (time, temperature and volume of solvent) were optimised using statistical design of experiments (DoE). The matrix effect was also evaluated. Recoveries ranged from 72 to 109% and the limit of quantification (LoQ) was 32.5 pg m(-3) for chlorpyrifos, 13.5 pg m(-3) for fenhexamid, imazalil and prochloraz, and 6.5 pg m(-3) for the rest of pesticides, when air volumes of 760 m(3) were collected. The method was applied to 54 samples collected from three stations of the atmospheric monitoring network of the Regional Valencia Government (Spain) during April-July 2009. Nineteen out of 30 pesticides investigated were found in at least one sample: omethoate, carbendazim, acetamiprid, thiabendazole, malathion, flusilazole, metalaxyl, azoxystrobin, iprovalicarb, myclobutanil, tebuconazole, triflumizole, cyprodinil, tebufenpyrad, buprofezin, pyriproxyfen, hexythiazox, flufenoxuron and fenazaquin. The measured concentrations ranged from 6.5 to 1208 pg m(-3). To our knowledge, 11 of the pesticides detected have been reported for the first time in ambient air.	1	pesticide
19921154	Gestational exposure to the organophosphate chlorpyrifos alters social-emotional behaviour and impairs responsiveness to the serotonin transporter inhibitor fluvoxamine in mice.	BACKGROUND: The organophosphate chlorpyrifos (CPF) is a pesticide largely used worldwide. Studies from animal models indicate that CPF exposure during development at low doses can target different neurotransmitter systems in the absence of overt cholinergic effects. METHODS: Late gestational exposure (gestational days 14-17) to CPF at the dose of 6 mg/kg was evaluated in CD-1 mice at adulthood. Neurobehavioural effects likely involving serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5HT) transmission were assessed both in males and females, through the light-dark exploration test to assess CPF effects on anxiety profiles and the forced swimming test to evaluate the response to the 5HT transporter (5HTT) inhibitor fluvoxamine (30 mg/kg). In females only, we evaluated the effects of gestational exposure to CPF on maternal aggression, under basal condition or after injection of fluvoxamine. RESULTS: Gestational CPF exposure increased anxiety levels only in female mice, as shown by the augmented thigmotaxis behaviour and the lower latency to enter in the dark compartment. In the forced swimming test, no differences between CPF and control mice were found when assessed under basal condition (saline administration), but both male and female CPF mice missed to show the typical behavioural effects of the 5HTT inhibitor fluvoxamine. During maternal aggression, CPF females showed lower propensity to and intensity of aggressive behaviour, together with mild decreased responsiveness to fluvoxamine administration. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the present results confirm a specific and sex-dependent vulnerability of affective/emotional domains to developmental CPF exposure. Furthermore, data provide clear indication on the disrupting effects of prenatal CPF on serotoninergic transmission.	1	pesticide
19934164	Time-course, dose-response, and age comparative sensitivity of N-methyl carbamates in rats.	N-Methyl carbamate insecticides are reversible inhibitors of central and peripheral acetylcholinesterase (ChE). Despite their widespread use, there are few studies of neurotoxicity in young animals. To study potential age-related differences, we evaluated seven carbamates (carbaryl, carbofuran, formetanate, methiocarb, methomyl, oxamyl, and propoxur) in preweanling (17 days old or postnatal day [PND] 17) male rats. Motor activity was monitored, and ChE inhibition was measured in brain and red blood cells (RBCs) using a radiometric assay that minimized reactivation of ChE. First, we conducted time-course studies in PND17 Long-Evans male rats, using a single oral dose of each carbamate. Almost all carbamates showed maximal ChE inhibition at a 45-min time point; only methomyl showed an earlier peak effect (15 min). At 24 h, most inhibition had recovered. Next, dose-response data were collected for each carbamate, using four doses and control, with motor activity testing beginning 15 min after dosing and tissue collection at 40-45 min. RBC ChE was generally inhibited to a greater degree than brain. Motor activity was not as sensitive a measure for some of the carbamates, with some differences across carbamates in the shapes of the dose-response curves. Additional studies documented age-related differences by comparing ChE inhibition in PND11, PND17, and adult rats following administration of carbaryl or carbofuran. Only the youngest (PND11) rats were more sensitive than adults to carbaryl, but both younger ages showed more effects than adults with carbofuran. Comparisons of the other carbamates to previous studies in adult rats suggest similar age-related sensitivity. Thus, these data show the time-course and dose-response characteristics for each carbamate and document greater sensitivity of the young for carbofuran and carbaryl.	1	pesticide
19938334	Evaluation of poly(ethylene-co-vinyl acetate-co-carbon monoxide) and polydimethylsiloxane for equilibrium sampling of polar organic contaminants in water.	The aim of the present study was to develop a passive absorptive equilibrium sampler that would enable the determination of the concentrations of polar organic compound (POC) in water more efficiently than existing techniques. To this end, a novel plastic material, poly(ethylene-co-vinyl acetate-co-carbon monoxide) (PEVAC), was evaluated and the results were compared with an existing silicone-based passive absorptive equilibrium device. Seven compounds (imidacloprid, carbendazim, metoprolol, atrazin, carbamazepine, diazinon, and chlorpyrifos), a mixture of pharmaceuticals, and pesticides with a logarithmic octanol-water partition coefficient ranging from 0.2 to 4.77 were selected as model substances for the experiments. The results showed that six of the seven selected POCs reached distribution equilibrium within 4 d in the two materials tested. A linear relation with a regression coefficient of more than 0.8906 between the established logarithmic absorbent-water partition coefficient and the calculated logarithmic dissociation partition coefficient of the selected compounds in the two polymers was observed. The correlation between these two coefficients was within one order of magnitude for the compounds that reached equilibrium in the two polymers, which demonstrates that both materials are suitable for mimicking biological uptake of POCs. The PEVAC material showed an enhanced sorption for all selected compounds compared to the silicone material and up to five times higher enrichment for the most polar compound. Fluorescence analysis of the sampler cross-section, following the uptake of fluoranthene, and proof that the sorption was independent of surface area variations demonstrated that the PEVAC polymer possessed absorptive rather than adsorptive enrichment of organic compounds.	1	pesticide
19944072	The antiparasitic isoxazoline A1443 is a potent blocker of insect ligand-gated chloride channels.	A structurally unique isoxazoline class compound, A1443, exhibits antiparasitic activity against cat fleas and dog ticks comparable to that of the commercial ectoparasiticide fipronil. This isoxazoline compound inhibits specific binding of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor channel blocker [(3)H]4'-ethynyl-4-n-propylbicycloorthobenzoate (EBOB) to housefly-head membranes, with an IC(50) value of 455pM. In contrast, the IC(50) value in rat-brain membranes is>10muM. To study the mode of action of this isoxazoline, we utilized MdGBCl and MdGluCl cDNAs, which encode the subunits of housefly GABA- and glutamate-gated chloride channels, respectively. Two-electrode voltage clamp electrophysiology was used to confirm that A1443 blocks GABA- and glutamate-induced chloride currents in Xenopus oocytes expressing MdGBCl or MdGluCl channels, with IC(50) values of 5.32 and 79.9 nM, respectively. Blockade by A1443 was observed in A2'S-MdGBCl and S2'A-MdGluCl mutant channels at levels similar to those of the respective wild-types, and houseflies expressing A2'S-MdGBCl channels were as susceptible to A1443 as standard houseflies. These findings indicate that A1443 is a novel and specific blocker of insect ligand-gated chloride channels.	1	pesticide
19950404	Metabolic enzyme(s) confer imidacloprid resistance in a clone of Myzus persicae (Sulzer) (Hemiptera: Aphididae) from Greece.	BACKGROUND: Previous studies have reported varying levels of resistance against imidacloprid in several insect species, including populations of the peach-potato aphid, Myzus persicae (Sulzer). These cases of resistance have been attributed to either target-site resistance or enhanced detoxification. In this study, a clone of M. persicae originating from Greece revealed a 60-fold resistance factor to imidacloprid. RESULTS: The Greek clone is compared in terms of metabolic enzyme activity and synergism profiles with other M. persicae clones showing lower imidacloprid resistance. CONCLUSION: A combination of in vitro biochemical assays and in vivo differential synergism studies using PBO and a close analogue EN 16/5-1 suggests that the mechanism conferring increased resistance in this clone is primarily due to enhanced oxidase activity.	1	pesticide
20018685	Gene amplification confers glyphosate resistance in Amaranthus palmeri.	The herbicide glyphosate became widely used in the United States and other parts of the world after the commercialization of glyphosate-resistant crops. These crops have constitutive overexpression of a glyphosate-insensitive form of the herbicide target site gene, 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase (EPSPS). Increased use of glyphosate over multiple years imposes selective genetic pressure on weed populations. We investigated recently discovered glyphosate-resistant Amaranthus palmeri populations from Georgia, in comparison with normally sensitive populations. EPSPS enzyme activity from resistant and susceptible plants was equally inhibited by glyphosate, which led us to use quantitative PCR to measure relative copy numbers of the EPSPS gene. Genomes of resistant plants contained from 5-fold to more than 160-fold more copies of the EPSPS gene than did genomes of susceptible plants. Quantitative RT-PCR on cDNA revealed that EPSPS expression was positively correlated with genomic EPSPS relative copy number. Immunoblot analyses showed that increased EPSPS protein level also correlated with EPSPS genomic copy number. EPSPS gene amplification was heritable, correlated with resistance in pseudo-F(2) populations, and is proposed to be the molecular basis of glyphosate resistance. FISH revealed that EPSPS genes were present on every chromosome and, therefore, gene amplification was likely not caused by unequal chromosome crossing over. This occurrence of gene amplification as an herbicide resistance mechanism in a naturally occurring weed population is particularly significant because it could threaten the sustainable use of glyphosate-resistant crop technology.	1	pesticide
20021062	Effects of cypermethrin on the dopaminergic neurons in the progressive hemiparkinsonian rats.	Cypermethrin is a potent pesticide derived from natural pyrethrin of the chrysanthemum plant. Cypermethrin has been known to modulate the blood-brain barrier and induce oxidative stress in rats. The oxidative stresses leading to increased reactive oxygen species generation have been identified within the degeneration of the dopaminergic (DA) neuron. However, in testing cypermethrin for its relationship to the degeneration of DA neurons, an experimental study has not yet been done. This study was designed to investigate the effects of cypermethrin on the DA neurons in the substantia nigra of normal and progressive hemiparkinsonian rats. The degree of degeneration of DA neurons was evaluated by tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunohistochemistry and forepaw adjusting step (FAS) test. The administration of cypermethrin (15 and 75 mg/kg/day) to the normal rats for 15 days did not decrease the number of TH-immunopositive (TH-IP) DA neurons in the substantia nigra. However, the low dose (15 mg/kg/day) of cypermethrin enhanced the rate of decline of DA neurons in the substantia nigra of hemiparkinsonian rats at 10 days and 3 weeks (p < 0.05). Also, the number of FAS in cypermethrin-treated hemiparkinsonian rats was reduced more rapidly than that of cypermethrin not-treated hemiparkinsonian rats at 10 days, 3 weeks, and 6 weeks (p < 0.05). These results suggest that cypermethrin per se cannot directly induce the degeneration of DA neurons but can accelerate a toxic effect on the degeneration of DA neurons in the progressive hemiparkinsonian rats.	1	pesticide
20027135	A review: oxidative stress in fish induced by pesticides.	The knowledge in oxidative stress in fish has a great importance for environmental and aquatic toxicology. Because oxidative stress is evoked by many chemicals including some pesticides, pro-oxidant factors' action in fish organism can be used to assess specific area pollution or world sea pollution. Hepatotoxic effect of DDT may be related with lipid peroxidation. Releasing of reactive oxygen species (ROS) after HCB exposure can be realized via two ways: via the uncoupling of the electron transport chain from monooxygenase activity and via metabolism of HCB major metabolite pentachlorophenol. Chlorothalonil disrupts mitochondrial metabolism due to the impairment of NADPH oxidase function. Activation of spleen macrophages and a decrease of catalase (CAT) activity have been observed after endosulfan exposure. Excessive release of superoxide radicals after etoxazole exposure can cause a decrease of CAT activity and increase phagocytic activity of splenocytes. Anticholinergic activity of organophosphates leads to the accumulation of ROS and resulting lipid peroxidation. Carbaryl induces changes in the content of glutathione and antioxidant enzymes activities. The antioxidant enzymes changes have been observed after actuation of pesticides deltamethrin and cypermethrin. Bipyridyl herbicides are able to form redox cycles and thereby cause oxidative stress. Low concentrations of simazine do not cause oxidative stress in carps during sub-chronic tests while sublethal concentrations of atrazin can induce oxidative stress in bluegill sunfish. Butachlor causes increased activity of superoxide dismutase -catalase system in the kidney. Rotenon can inhibit the electron transport in mitochondria and thereby increase ROS production. Dichloroaniline, the metabolite of diuron, has oxidative effects. Oxidative damage from fenpyroximate actuation is related to the disruption of mitochondrial redox respiratory chain. Low concentration of glyphosate can cause mild oxidative stress.	1	pesticide
20036731	Effects of Roundup and glyphosate formulations on intracellular transport, microtubules and actin filaments in Xenopus laevis melanophores.	Glyphosate containing herbicides, such as Roundup, are commonly used and generally considered to be safe. However, some toxic effects are found on amphibians in vivo and human and mouse cells in vitro. In this study the effects of Roundup, glyphosate, glyphosateisopropylamine and isopropylamine were studied on intracellular transport by measuring aggregation capacity in Xenopus laevis melanophores. The chemicals inhibited retrograde transport of melanosomes in the range of 0.5-5mM. Cellular morphology and localization of microtubules and actin filaments were affected as determined by immunocytochemistry. Both glyphosate and Roundup decreased pH in the media. Acidic pH inhibited melanosome transport and altered microtubule and actin morphology in the absence of chemicals, while transport inhibiting concentrations of glyphosate, Roundup and glyphosateisopropylamine disassembled both microtubules and actin filaments. At physiological pH the effects of Roundup decreased whereas glyphosate failed to inhibit transport. Physiological pH decreases glyphosate lipophilicity and its diffusion into the cytoplasm. The Roundup formulation contains surfactants, such as POEA (polyetylated tallow amine) that increases membrane permeability allowing cellular uptake at physiological pH. Our results show that the effects of glyphosate containing compounds are pH-dependent and that they inhibit intracellular transport through disassembly of the cytoskeleton possibly by interfering with intracellular Ca(2+)-balance.	1	pesticide
20040194	[Compatibility of Beauveria bassiana (Ascomycetes: Clavicipitaceae) with chemicals acaricides used in the control of cattle tick].	The purpose of the present study was to assess compatibility between IBCB66 and IBCB21 isolates of Beauveria bassiana and acaricides: Flumethrin+Coumaphos, Deltamethrin, Dichlorvos+Cypermethrin, Dichlorvos+Chlorpyrifos, Cypermethrin High Cis, Dichlorvos+Cypermethrin High Cis, Cypermethrin and Amitraz, utilized on the control of Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus in our country. The effect of commercial products on the isolates was assayed according to observation of vegetative growth, conidia production, and viability of strains of B. bassiana fungus. With concerning about IBCB66 isolate, products Deltamethrin, Cypermethrin High Cis and Amitraz were compatible, not affecting the entomopathogen development. Product Cypermethrin was toxic, and products Flumethrin+Coumaphos, Dichlorvos+Cypermethrin, Dichlorvos+Chlorpyrifos and Dichlorvos+Cypermethrin High Cis were very toxic. In regard to IBCB21 isolate, products Flumethrin+Coumaphos, Dichlorvos+Cypermethrin, Dichlorvos+Chlorpyrifos, Cypermethrin High Cis, Dichlorvos+Cypermethrin High Cis and Cypermethrin were very toxic and product Amitraz was toxic. From the acaricides evaluated, product Deltamethrin was the single agent that did not produce toxic effect on the entomopathogen.	1	pesticide
20049211	Well-water consumption and Parkinson's disease in rural California.	INTRODUCTION: Investigators have hypothesized that consuming pesticide-contaminated well water plays a role in Parkinson's disease (PD), and several previous epidemiologic studies support this hypothesis. OBJECTIVES: We investigated whether consuming water from private wells located in areas with documented historical pesticide use was associated with an increased risk of PD. METHODS: We employed a geographic information system (GIS)-based model to estimate potential well-water contamination from agricultural pesticides among 368 cases and 341 population controls enrolled in the Parkinson's Environment and Genes Study (PEG). We separately examined 6 pesticides (diazinon, chlorpyrifos, propargite, paraquat, dimethoate, and methomyl) from among 26 chemicals selected for their potential to pollute groundwater or for their interest in PD, and because at least 10% of our population was exposed to them. RESULTS: Cases were more likely to have consumed private well water and to have consumed it on average 4.3 years longer than controls (p = 0.02). High levels of possible well-water contamination with methomyl [odds ratio (OR) = 1.67; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.00-2.78]), chlorpyrifos (OR = 1.87; 95% CI, 1.05-3.31), and propargite (OR = 1.92; 95% CI, 1.15-3.20) resulted in approximately 70-90% increases in relative risk of PD. Adjusting for ambient pesticide exposures only slightly attenuated these increases. Exposure to a higher number of water-soluble pesticides and organophosphate pesticides also increased the relative risk of PD. CONCLUSION: Our study, the first to use agricultural pesticide application records, adds evidence that consuming well water presumably contaminated with pesticides may play a role in the etiology of PD.	1	pesticide
20058833	[Assessing the insecticide resistance of an Aedes aegypti strain in El Salvador].	OBJECTIVES: To assess the level of insecticide susceptibility of a certain Aedes aegypti strain found in El Salvador and to explain the mechanisms for its resistance to temephos. METHODS: An A. aegypti strain from the municipality of Soyapango, Department of San Salvador, El Salvador, was studied. Bioassays were used to determine the susceptibility of the larvae to the organophosphate insecticide temephos and to three pyrethroids (deltamethrin, lambda-cyhalothrin, and cypermethrin); and of adults to an organophosphate insecticide (chlorpyrifos). The resistance factor (RF50) with determined with respect to a reference susceptible strain (Rockefeller). The mechanism of temephos resistance was determined through the use of synergistic substances, biochemical assays for enzymatic activity, and polyacrylamide gel zymograms. RESULTS: The larvae of the strain studied proved highly resistant to temephos (RF50 = 24.16). Of the enzyme samples analyzed, only the esterase A4 was linked to the mechanism of temephos resistance. The adult mosquitoes were susceptible to lambda-cyhalothrin and chlorpyrifos; and resistance to deltamethrin and cypermethrin fell into the category needing further verification. CONCLUSIONS: Temephos resistance could reduce the efficiency of chemical control of the A. aegypti mosquito in El Salvador study area. Chlorpyrifos, lambda-cyhalothrin, and cypermethrin are good alternative insecticides for use in new efforts to control this vector.	1	pesticide
20059816	[Efficacy of the pyrethroid permethrin on the control of Psoroptes ovis (Hering, 1838) (Acari:Psoroptidae) in naturally infested rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus)].	The goal of the present study was to evaluate the efficacy of a spray formulation containing 2% of the pyrethroid permethrin on the control of Psoroptes ovis in naturally infested rabbits. Ten rabbits, presenting clinical signs of psoroptic mange in both ear canals. The animals were divided into two groups of five: control, without treatment (GI) and a second group (GII) treated with a single application of 2% permethrin. The diagnosis was realized by collecting fragments of crusts from both ear canals and submitting to stereomicroscopy for the presence and evaluation of mites' motility. On day 0 the animals from GII were treated topically with 2mg of 2% permethrin in each ear canal. No other treatment or environmental decontamination was performed during the trial. The rabbits were evaluated daily for observation of possible side effects. To evaluate the efficacy, collections of material were undertaken on days: +7, +14, +21. The formulation containing 2% permethrin was 100% effective in the control of P. ovis in naturally infested rabbits, along all days of observation. No adverse reactions were observed in the treated animals.	1	pesticide
20066985	[Drug resistance evolution of dichlorvos-resistant and cypermethrin-resistant strains of Culex pipiens pallens].	Susceptible strain of Culex pipiens pallens was selected with dichlorvos and cypermethrin for 42 generations in the laboratory. At generation 42, the resistance level to dichlorvos and cypermethrin was 12.2-fold and 534.3-fold, respectively, in comparison to their parent generations. The dichlorvos-resistant and cypermethrin-resistant strains were then conventionally bred for another 20 generations, the resistance level to dichlorvos and cypermethrin decreased to 6.1-fold and 83.3-fold, respectively. The results indicated that the two resistant strains showed different development of resistance.	1	pesticide
20077180	Effect of various xenobiotics on hatching success of Spodoptera exigua eggs as compared to a natural plant extract.	The effects of fenitrothion, carbaryl, and mancozeb, present in polluted water and plant extracted glycoalkaloids, were examined on hatching success of Spodoptera exigua eggs. All chemicals produced a significant decrease in hatching success, which was correlated with chemical concentration. One of the most interesting aspects of this study relates to the biological activity of glycoalkaloids.	1	pesticide
20112104	Herbicide formulation with glyphosate affects growth, acetylcholinesterase activity, and metabolic and hematological parameters in piava (Leporinus obtusidens).	The teleost fish Leporinus obtusidens (piava) was exposed to different concentrations of Roundup, a commercial herbicide formulation containing glyphosate (0, 1, or 5 mg L(-1)), for 90 days. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity was verified in brain and muscle. Hepatic and muscular metabolic parameters as well as some hematological parameters were determined. The results showed that brain AChE activity was significantly decreased in fish exposed to 5 mg L(-1) Roundup, whereas muscular AChE activity was not altered. Both Roundup concentrations significantly decreased liver glycogen without altering the muscle glycogen content. Hepatic glucose levels were reduced only in fish exposed to 5 mg L(-1) Roundup. Lactate levels in the liver and muscle significantly increased in fish exposed to both Roundup concentrations. Hepatic protein content remained constant at 1 mg L(-1) but increased at 5 mg L(-1) Roundup. In the muscle however, protein content decreased with increasing exposure concentration. The herbicide exposure produced a decrease in hematological parameters at both concentrations tested. The majority of observed effects occur at environmental relevant concentrations, and in summary, the results show that Roundup affects brain AChE activity as well as metabolic and hematologic parameters of piavas. Thus, we can suggest that long-term exposure to Roundup causes metabolic disruption in Leporinus obtusidens.	1	pesticide
20123482	Permethrin spot-on intoxication of cats Literature review and survey of veterinary practitioners in Australia.	UNLABELLED: SURVEY AIMS: A questionnaire was sent to veterinarians in Australia to determine the approximate number of cats presenting for permethrin spot-on (PSO) intoxication over a 2-year period. FINDINGS: Of the 269 questionnaires returned, 255 were eligible for analysis. A total of 207 respondents (81%) reported cases of PSO intoxication in cats over the previous 2 years. In total, 750 individual cases were reported, with 166 deaths. While all deaths were generally attributable to intoxication, 39 cats were euthanased because owners were unable to pay the anticipated treatment costs. Brands of PSO implicated included Exelpet Flea (and Tick) Liquidator (Mars Australia) (146 respondents), Bayer Advantix (48), Purina Totalcare Flea Eliminator Line-On (19), Troy Ease-On (six) and Duogard Line-On (Virbac) (four); 67 respondents were not able to identify a specific product. Permethrin spot-on formulations were most commonly obtained from supermarkets (146 respondents), followed by pet stores (43), veterinary practices (16), and a range of other sources including produce stores and friends. The majority of intoxication cases reported involved PSOs labelled for use in dogs with specific label instructions such as 'toxic to cats'. Owners applied these PSO products to their cats accidentally or intentionally. In some cases, exposure was through secondary contact, such as when a PSO product was applied to a dog with which a cat had direct or indirect contact. RECOMMENDATIONS: In the authors' view, because of the likelihood of inappropriate use and toxicity in the non-labelled species, over-the-counter products intended for use in either dogs or cats must have a high margin of safety in all species. Furthermore, PSOs should only be available at points of sale where veterinary advice can be provided and appropriate warnings given. As an interim measure, modified labelling with more explicit warnings may reduce morbidity and mortality.	1	pesticide
20138627	Ultrasound-assisted surfactant-enhanced emulsification microextraction for the determination of carbamate pesticides in water samples by high performance liquid chromatography.	A novel ultrasound-assisted surfactant-enhanced emulsification microextraction (UASEME) coupled with high performance liquid chromatography-diode array detection has been developed for the extraction and determination of six carbamate pesticides (metolcarb, carbofuran, carbaryl, pirimicarb, isoprocarb and diethofencarb) in water samples. In the UASEME technique, Tween 20 was used as emulsifier, and chlorobenzene and chloroform were used as dual extraction solvent without using any organic dispersive solvent that is normally required in the previously described common dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction method. Parameters that affect the extraction efficiency, such as the kind and volume of the extraction solvent, the type and concentration of the surfactant, ultrasound emulsification time and salt addition, were investigated and optimized for the method. Under the optimum conditions, the enrichment factors were in the range between 170 and 246. The limits of detection of the method were 0.1-0.3 ng mL(-1) and the limits of quantification were between 0.3 and 0.9 ng mL(-1), depending on the compounds. The linearity of the method was obtained in the range of 0.3-200 ng mL(-1) for metolcarb, carbaryl, pirimicarb, and diethofencarb, 0.6-200 ng mL(-1) for carbofuran, and 0.9-200 ng mL(-1) for isoprocarb, with the correlation coefficients (r) ranging from 0.9982 to 0.9998. The relative standard deviations varied from 3.2 to 4.8% (n=5). The recoveries of the method for the six carbamates from water samples at spiking levels of 1.0, 10.0, 50.0 and 100.0 ng mL(-1) were ranged from 81.0 to 97.5%. The proposed UASEME technique has demonstrated to be simple, practical and environmentally friendly for the determination of carbamates residues in river, reservoir and well water samples.	1	pesticide
20146964	Perfluorinated compounds, polychlorinated biphenyls, and organochlorine pesticide contamination in composite food samples from Dallas, Texas, USA.	OBJECTIVES: The objective of this article is to extend our previous studies of persistent organic pollutant (POP) contamination of U.S. food by measuring perfluorinated compounds (PFCs), organochlorine pesticides, and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in composite food samples. This study is part of a larger study reported in two articles, the other of which reports levels of polybrominated diphenyl ethers and hexabromocyclododecane brominated flame retardants in these composite foods [Schecter et al. 2010. Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) and hexabromocyclodecane (HBCD) in composite U.S. food samples, Environ Health Perspect 118:357-362]. METHODS: In this study we measured concentrations of 32 organochlorine pesticides, 7 PCBs, and 11 PFCs in composite samples of 31 different types of food (310 individual food samples) purchased from supermarkets in Dallas, Texas (USA), in 2009. Dietary intake of these chemicals was calculated for an average American. RESULTS: Contamination varied greatly among chemical and food types. The highest level of pesticide contamination was from the dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) metabolite p,p -dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene, which ranged from 0.028 ng/g wet weight (ww) in whole milk yogurt to 2.3 ng/g ww in catfish fillets. We found PCB congeners (28, 52, 101, 118, 138, 153, and 180) primarily in fish, with highest levels in salmon (PCB-153, 1.2 ng/g ww; PCB-138, 0.93 ng/g ww). For PFCs, we detected perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) in 17 of 31 samples, ranging from 0.07 ng/g in potatoes to 1.80 ng/g in olive oil. In terms of dietary intake, DDT and DDT metabolites, endosulfans, aldrin, PCBs, and PFOA were consumed at the highest levels. CONCLUSION: Despite product bans, we found POPs in U.S. food, and mixtures of these chemicals are consumed by the American public at varying levels. This suggests the need to expand testing of food for chemical contaminants.	1	pesticide
20166660	Postinfection activity, residue levels, and persistence of azoxystrobin, fludioxonil, and pyrimethanil applied alone or in combination with heat and imazalil for green mold control on inoculated oranges.	The postinfection activity of azoxystrobin (AZX), fludioxonil (FLU), and pyrimethanil (PYR), applied alone or in combination with imazalil (IMZ), in controlling postharvest green mold in 'Salustiana' oranges inoculated with Penicillium digitatum was studied. Fruits were immersed for 30 or 60 s in (i) water or water mixtures at 20 degrees C containing AZX, FLU, or PYR at 600 mg/L; and (ii) IMZ at 600 mg/L, alone or in combination with AZX, FLU, or PYR at 600 mg/L. Similar treatments were performed at 50 degrees C using the active ingredients at half rates with respect to the treatments at 20 degrees C. Fungicide residues in fruits were analyzed following treatments and after 14 days of simulated shelf life at 17 degrees C. AZX or FLU mixtures at 20 degrees C for 30-60 s similarly but moderately reduced green mold decay with respect to control fruit; differences due to dip time were not significant. Superior control of decay was achieved by PYR and, especially, IMZ, applied alone or in combination with AZX, FLU, or PYR. The activity of PYR at 20 degrees C was significantly dependent on treatment time, whereas that of IMZ and combined treatments at 20 degrees C was not. The effectiveness of FLU or PYR mixtures at 50 degrees C in controlling decay was similar and superior to that of AZX. The action of single- or double-fungicide application was not dependent on dip time in most samples. IMZ or combined mixtures at 50 degrees C were consistently more effective with respect to single-fungicide treatments with AZX, FLU, or PYR. The application of heated fungicide mixtures resulted in significantly higher residue accumulation in most fruit samples compared to treatments performed at 20 degrees C. The degradation rate of fungicides was generally low and dependent on treatment conditions such as time, temperature, and the presence or not of other fungicides.	1	pesticide
20176824	Microbial atrazine breakdown in a karst groundwater system and its effect on ecosystem energetics.	In the absence of sunlight energy, microbial community survival in subterranean aquifers depends on integrated mechanisms of energy and nutrient scavenging. Because karst aquifers are particularly sensitive to agricultural land use impacts due to rapid and direct hydrologic connections for pollutants to enter the groundwater, we examined the fate of an exogenous pesticide (atrazine) into such an aquifer and its impact on microbial ecosystem function. Atrazine and its degradation product deethylatrazine (DEA) were detected in a fast-flowing karst aquifer underlying atrazine-impacted agricultural land. By establishing microbial cultures with sediments from a cave conduit within this aquifer, we observed two distinct pathways of microbial atrazine degradation: (i) in cave sediments previously affected by atrazine, apparent surface-derived catabolic genes allowed the microbial communities to rapidly degrade atrazine via hydroxyatrazine, to cyanuric acid, and (ii) in low-impact sediments not previously exposed to this pesticide, atrazine was also degraded by microbial activity at a much slower rate, with DEA as the primary degradation product. In sediments from both locations, atrazine affected nitrogen cycling by altering the abundance of nitrogen dissimulatory species able to use nitrogenous compounds for energy. The sum of these effects was that the presence of atrazine altered the natural microbial processes in these cave sediments, leading to an accumulation of nitrate. Such changes in microbial ecosystem dynamics can alter the ability of DEA to serve as a proxy for atrazine contamination and can negatively affect ecosystem health and water quality in karst aquifers.	1	pesticide
20177574	Comparison of safety, efficacy, and cost effectiveness of benzyl benzoate, permethrin, and ivermectin in patients of scabies.	OBJECTIVE: To compare three treatment modalities in scabies for safety, efficacy, and economy in a local population of Nagpur. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a prospective, randomized, comparative clinical trial conducted in 103 participants, randomly allocated to three groups. First group received benzyl benzoate (BB) 25% lotion, second group received permethrin 5% cream, whereas third group received tablet ivermectin 200 mug/kg as a single dose. The participants were recalled after one week for follow-up evaluation. If there were no signs of cure, the same intervention was repeated. The participants were followed up for two weeks for cure rate, adverse drug reaction (ADR) monitoring, and postintervention observation. The follow-up was stopped after two weeks. STATISTICS: Fischer's exact test using Graph pad Instat v 3.05. RESULTS: Ivermectin showed 100% cure rate after two weeks of treatment. Permethrin decreased pruritus by 76% at the end of one week and had significantly better cure rate than ivermectin. At the end of two weeks treatment, this finding was reversed, that is, cure rate in ivermectin group was 100%. For cost-effectiveness analysis, treatment regimens were formulated hypothetically for comparison from Markov population tree for decision analysis. It was found that BB and ivermectin each consecutively for two weeks were most cost effective regimens giving complete cure in four weeks, while ivermectin was the fastest regimen giving the same results in two weeks. CONCLUSION: Benzyl benzoate as first line intervention and ivermectin in the remaining gave best cost-effective results in the study patients of scabies.	1	pesticide
20181342	Hollow fiber-liquid-phase microextraction of fungicides from orange juices.	Liquid-phase microextraction (LPME) based on polypropylene hollow fibers was evaluated for the extraction of the post-harvest fungicides thiabendazole (TBZ), carbendazim (CBZ) and imazalil (IMZ) from orange juices. Direct LPME was performed without any sample pretreatment prior to the extraction, using a simple home-built equipment. A volume of 500 microL of 840 mM NaOH was added to 3 mL of orange juice in order to compensate the acidity of the samples and to adjust pH into the alkaline region. Analytes were extracted in their neutral state through a supported liquid membrane (SLM) of 2-octanone into 20 microL of a stagnant aqueous solution of 10 mM HCl inside the lumen of the hollow fiber. Subsequently, the acceptor solution was directly subjected to analysis. Capillary electrophoresis (CE) was used during the optimization of the extraction procedure. Working under the optimized extraction conditions, LPME effectively extracted the analytes from different orange juices, regardless of different pH or solid material (pulp) present in the sample, with recoveries that ranged between 17.0 and 33.7%. The analytical performance of the method was evaluated by liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (LC/MS). This technique provided better sensitivity than CE and permitted the detection below the microg L(-1) level. The relative standard deviations of the recoveries (RSDs) ranged between 3.4 and 10.6%, which are acceptable values for a manual microextraction technique without any previous sample treatment, using a home-built equipment and working under non-equilibrium conditions (30 min extraction). Linearity was obtained in the range 0.1-10.0 microg L(-1), with r=0.999 and 0.998 for TBZ and IMZ, respectively. Limits of detection were below 0.1 microg L(-1) and are consistent with the maximum residue levels permitted for pesticides in drinking water, which is the most restrictive regulation applicable for these kinds of samples. It has been demonstrated the suitability of three-phase LPME for the extraction of pesticides from citrus juices, suppressing any pretreatment step such as filtration or removal of the solid material from the sample, that may potentially involve a loss of analyte.	1	pesticide
20183080	Enhanced visual detection of pesticides using gold nanoparticles.	The presence of parts per billion (ppb) levels of chlorpyrifos (O,O-Diethyl-O-(3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridyl) phosphorothioate) and malathion (S-1,2-bis(ethoxycarbonyl) ethyl O,O-dimethyl phosphorodithioate), two common pesticides found in the surface waters of developing countries, have been visually detected using gold nanoparticles. Visual detection of the presence of pesticide is possible when the color change occurring by the adsorption of pesticides on gold nanoparticles is enhanced by sodium sulfate. The method presented here is simple and there is no need of sample preparation or preconcentration. The response occurs within seconds and the color change is very clear. The detection is possible if chlorpyrifos and malathion are present up to a concentration of 20 and 100 ppb, respectively. The method shows great potential for on-site pesticide monitoring. The method is also applicable as a qualitative technique for the performance evaluation of various household water filters, which claim pesticide removal.	1	pesticide
20196177	Optimization of electrospray interface and quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometer parameters in pesticide liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization mass spectrometry analysis.	Optimization of both the ionization process and ion transportation in the mass spectrometer is of crucial importance in order to achieve high sensitivity and low detection limits and acceptable accuracy in liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (LC/ESI-MS) analysis. In this paper four optimization procedures of electrospray interface and quadrupole ion-trap mass spectrometer parameters (ESI-MS) (nebulizer gas and drying gas flow rate, end plate voltage, capillary voltage, skimmer voltage, octopoles direct current and radio frequency, trap drive and lens voltages) were studied on three pesticides--thiabendazole, aldicarb and imazalil. The results demonstrate that the methodology of optimization strongly influences the effectiveness of finding true optima of the operating parameters. Both eluent flow rate and composition during optimization have to mimic the situation during real analysis as closely as possible in order to achieve parameters giving the highest sensitivity. Therefore, post-column addition of analyte to the mobile phase identical in composition to the one in which analyte elutes during real analysis combined with software-based optimization was found to be the most effective and fastest method for achieving intensity maxima. The parameters most strongly affecting ion formation and transportation, hence sensitivity, were capillary voltage, direct current of the first octopole, trap drive and the second lens for all pesticides under study. In addition to sensitivity and detection limit matrix effect was considered in the optimization process. It was found that the matrix effect can be reduced but not eliminated by adjusting the ESI and MS parameters. The optimal parameters from the point of view of the matrix effect can only be found with factorial design. Parameters giving higher sensitivity tended to be more affected by matrix effect causing higher ionization suppression by co-eluting compounds.	1	pesticide
20205231	Contact toxicity of insecticides for attract-and-kill applications against adult Plodia interpunctella (Hübner) (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae).	BACKGROUND: The Indian meal moth (IMM), Plodia interpunctella (Hübner), is an important pest of stored food products. Contact toxicities of 13 insecticides applied to different surfaces were evaluated at registered label and a higher dose for killing adult males. The ultimate objective was to develop attract-and-kill technologies for P. interpunctella. Two-day-old adult males were exposed to treated surfaces for 2.0 s and then paired with virgin females for mating and oviposition over a 24 h period. RESULTS: Permethrins and pyrethrins (organic pyrethrin and pyrethrin plus a synergist) caused over 70% mortality to males. Oviposition was impacted by these insecticides, while egg hatch was not. A second experiment tested the 8 week residual toxicity of cyfluthrin, permethrin and pyrethrin at label and at a higher dose of 20 g AI L(-1) on five surfaces: plastic-coated paper, metal, painted plastic, unpainted plastic and wood. Permethrin at 20 g AI L(-1) suppressed males at over 80% for up to 8 weeks and retained activity on surfaces made with plastic-coated paper, metal or plastic. Oviposition was variable among treatments. Egg hatch was generally unaffected by treatment. CONCLUSION: Effective attract-and-kill surfaces can be developed for killing IMM males and thereby potentially lead to reduced reproduction and, ultimately, population suppression.	1	pesticide
20209234	[Susceptibility of Aedes aegypti to DDT, deltamethrin, and lambda-cyhalothrin in Colombia].	OBJECTIVES: To assess the susceptibility status of 13 natural populations of Aedes aegypti (collected from sites in Colombia where dengue is a serious public health problem) to the pyrethroids, deltamethrin and lambda-cyhalothrin, and to the organochlorine, DDT, and to identify any biochemical mechanisms associated with resistance. METHODS: Immature forms of the vector were collected from natural breeding spots at each site and then raised under controlled conditions. Using the F2 generation, bioassays were performed using the World Health Organization's 1981 methodology (impregnated paper) and United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's 1998 methodology (impregnated bottles). In populations where mortality rates were consistent with decreased susceptibility, levels of nonspecific esterases (NSE), mixed-function oxidases (MFO), and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) were measured using colorimetric tests. RESULTS: All of the mosquito populations that were tested showed resistance to the organochlorine DDT. In the case of the pyrethroids, widespread resistance to lambda-cyhalothrin was found, but not to deltamethrin. Assessing the biochemical resistance mechanisms showed that 7 of the 11 populations had elevated NSE, and one population, increased MFO. CONCLUSIONS: Physiological cross-resistance between DDT and lambda-cyhalothrin in the A. aegypti populations tested was dismissed. Physiological resistance to lambda-cyhalothrin appears to be associated with increased NSE. The differences in susceptibility levels and enzyme values among the populations were associated with genetic variations and chemicals in use locally.	1	pesticide
20218521	Toxico-pathological effects in rats induced by lambda-cyhalothrin.	Pesticides are widely used chemicals making human exposure to pesticides a realistic possibility. Biomonitoring is a common and useful tool for assessing human exposure to pesticides. Pyrethroids are effective insecticides that are often used in household sprays, aerosol bombs, insect repellents, pet shampoos, and lice treatments. Using products containing these compounds will expose people to these chemicals. Since these compounds frequently are used on crOPs, they are often detected in fruits and vegetables. Biomonitoring of exposure is a useful tool for assessing exposure to pesticides. Biomonitoring involves the measurement of the parent pesticide, its metabolite or reaction product in biological media, typically blood or urine, to determine if an exposure has occurred and the extent of that exposure. Although not without its limitations, biomonitoring has great utility in integrating all routes of exposure allowing for one exposure measurement. Pesticides have much shorter environmental half-lives and tend not to bioaccumulate. In fact, from humans within 24 hr as the parent pesticide, a mercapturic acid detoxification product, oxidative or dealkylation metabolites, and/or glucuronide or sulphate-bound metabolites. However, because of the heavy agricultural and residential use of these chemicals, humans are continually exposed to many of these chemicals. The objective of the present study was to explore modification in toxico-pathological responses of rats treated with lambda-cyhalothrin (commercially called karate). Rats (250 g weight), were gavaged by 1/100 LD50 for 4 weeks (one dose every week). Blood was collected before dosing and after 48 hours from the treatment. Enzyme activities were assayed in the plasma samples obtained. Glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (GOT), Glutamate pyruvate transaminase (GPT), Alkaline phosphatase (ALPH) and Glucose. The results showed a decrease in RBC; WBC and Hb. This probably explained by the effect of lambda cyhalothrin on the erythropoiesis and the destruction of cells. An increase of plasma enzyme activities in GOT and GPT were recorded, explain a high energy-generating product. The histopathological results showed alteration on the target organs such as liver and kidney, these biochemical and histological modifications are probably due to the effect of lambda cyhalothrin or their metabolites.	1	pesticide
20231772	Efficacy of imidacloprid and fipronil gels over synthetic pyrethroid and propoxur aerosols in control of German cockroaches (Dictyoptera: Blatellidae).	BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: Resistance amongst cockroaches has been reported to most of the spray insecticides apart from the problem of food contamination and inconvenience. Gel baits which can be selectively applied have been found effective in control of cockroaches in laboratory studies but very few field studies are available. This trial was planned to evaluate the efficacy of fipronil (0.01%) and imidacloprid (2.15%) gels over synthetic pyrethroid (0.02% deltamethrin + 0.13% allethrin) and propoxur (2%) aerosols in control of cockroaches in the field. METHODS: Survey was done to find out pre-treatment density in catering establishments and houses by visual count and sticky trap methods. A total of 10 catering establishments and 10 houses having high cockroach infestation were selected by sampling (two catering establishments and houses for each insecticidal treatment and two for control). Propoxur and synthetic pyrethroid aerosols were used for spraying the infested sites once only. Single application of fipronil and imidacloprid gels was used as crack and crevice treatment. Visual count method gave better indications of cockroach infestation as compared to sticky trap method, hence, the same was followed for post-treatment evaluation every week up to 12 weeks. RESULTS: Synthetic pyrethroid could not bring about the desired reduction in cockroach infestation in the present study. Single application of fipronil gel was able to reduce cockroach infestation up to 96.8% at the end of 12 weeks whereas imidacloprid application resulted in 90.9% reduction and propoxur resulted in 77.5%. However, propoxur was more effective in reducing the cockroach density by first week in comparison to imidacloprid and fipronil gels but its efficacy started declining after 8th week. Difference was found statistically significant by Kruskal-Wallis H-test. CONCLUSION: The study reports the efficacy of propoxur aerosol, imidacloprid gel and fipronil gel baits for control of cockroaches.	1	pesticide
20303092	Development of a simple extraction and clean-up procedure for determination of organochlorine pesticides in soil using gas chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	A procedure based on QuEChERS extraction and a simultaneous liquid-liquid partition clean-up was developed. The procedure involved extraction of hydrated soil samples using acetonitrile and clean-up by liquid-liquid partition into n-hexane. The hexane extracts produced were clean and suitable for determination using gas chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (GC-MS/MS). The method was validated by analysis of soil samples, spiked at five levels between 1 and 200 microg kg(-1). The recovery values were generally between 70 and 100% and the relative standard deviation values (%RSDs) were at or below 20%. The procedure was validated for determination of 19 organochlorine (OC) pesticides. These were hexachlorobenzene (HCB), alpha-HCH, beta-HCH, gamma-HCH, heptachlor, heptachlor epoxide (trans), aldrin, dieldrin, chlordane (trans), chlordane (cis), oxychlordane, alpha-endosulfan, beta-endosulfan, endosulfan sulfate, endrin, p,p'-DDT, o,p'-DDT, p,p'-DDD and p,p'-DDE. The method achieved low limits of detection (LOD; typically 0.3 microg kg(-1)) and low limits of quantification (LOQ; typically 1.0 microg kg(-1)). The method performance was also assessed using five fortified soil samples with different physico-chemical properties and the method performance was consistent for the different types of soil samples. The proposed method was compared with an established procedure based on Soxtec extraction. This comparison was carried out using six soil samples collected from regions of Pakistan with a history of intensive pesticide use. The results of this comparison showed that the two procedures produced results with good agreement. The proposed method produced cleaner extracts and therefore led to lower limits of quantification. The proposed method was less time consuming and safer to use. The six samples tested during this comparison showed that soils from cotton growing regions contained a number of persistent OC residues at relatively low levels (<10 microg kg(-1)). These residues were alpha-HCH, gamma-HCH, heptachlor, chlordane (trans), p,p'-DDT, o,p'-DDT, p,p'-DDD, p,p'-DDE, beta-endosulfan and endosulfan sulfate.	1	pesticide
20348500	Spatio-temporal patterns in kdr frequency in permethrin and DDT resistant Anopheles gambiae s.s. from Uganda.	The planned upscaling of vector control strategies requires insight into the epidemiological consequences of vector resistance. Therefore, the pyrethroid and DDT resistance status of Anopheles gambiae s.l. was assessed in Uganda from 2004 to 2006, and spatial and seasonal variations in knockdown resistance (kdr) frequencies were analyzed in terms of epidemiological significance. Anopheles gambiae s.l. was DDT and pyrethroid resistant in central and eastern Uganda. The L1014S kdr allele frequencies varied from 3% to 48% in An. gambiae s.s. Although the homozygous resistant genotype was the most prevalent genotype among survivors, the genotypes could not entirely explain the bioassay results. In the dry season, the kdr frequency was significantly higher in Plasmodium falciparum-infected mosquitoes, indicating that mosquitoes bearing a kdr mutation have a better adult survival, hence a higher likelihood of becoming infectious. This study showed that kdr might have an epidemiological impact that could jeopardize the vector control strategies.	1	pesticide
20358544	Determination of glyphosate and its metabolites in plant material by reversed-polarity CE with indirect absorptiometric detection.	A simple CE method for simultaneous determination of glyphosate and its metabolites (i.e. aminomethylphosphonic acid, glyoxylate, sarcosine and formaldehyde) in plants is reported here. A BGE of pH 7.5, 10% ACN, 7.5 mM phthalate, containing 0.75 mM hexadecyltrimethylammonium bromide as an electro-osmotic flow modifier, an applied voltage of -20 kV and absorptiometric monitoring at 220 nm were the optimal chemical and instrumental parameters. The method, with development time 20 min, shows linear calibrations within the range 5-500 microg/mL (for all target analytes) with correlation coefficients between 0.999 and 0.998. It has been validated by application to samples of Lolium spp. The electroinjection mode hinders most interferents to enter the capillary, thus providing a clean electropherogram and making unnecessary long sample-preparation steps.	1	pesticide
20359525	The primary role of glutathione against nuclear DNA damage of striatum induced by permethrin in rats.	Pyrethroids are one of the most widely used class of insecticides and their toxicity is dominated by pharmacological actions upon the CNS. This study reports as the subchronic treatment (60 days) with permethrin (PERM) (1/10 of LD(50)) induced nuclear DNA damage in rat striatum cells. Comet assay outcomes showed that PERM produced single- and double-strand breaks in striatum cells, the DNA damage was not related to oxidation at pyrimidine and purine bases. Vitamin E (280 mg/kg body weight/day) and vitamin E+coenzyme Q(10) (10 mg/kg/3 ml) supplementation could protect PERM treated rats against nuclear DNA damage. With the aim to evaluate the cause of nuclear DNA damage observed in striatum of rat treated with PERM, in vitro studies on striatum submitochondrial particles (SMPs) and on striatum cells treated with 10 muM PERM alone or plus 16 or 32 nM GSH were performed. SMPs incubated with PERM showed a decrease in superoxide anion release from the electron transport chain by inhibition of mitochondrial complex I. The effect could be related to the decrease of membrane fluidity measured in the hydrophilic-hydrophobic region of the mitochondrial membrane. This result discarded the involvement of the mitochondrial reactive oxygen species in the nuclear DNA damage. On the contrary, GSH played a crucial role on striatum since it was able to protect the cells against nuclear DNA damage induced by PERM. In conclusion our outcomes suggested that nuclear DNA damage of striatum cells was directly related to GSH depletion due to PERM insecticide.	1	pesticide
20390930	In vitro effects of pesticides and metals on the activity of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) from different tissues of the blue mussel, Mytilus trossulus L.	The objective of this study was to conduct a comprehensive comparison of the effect on acetylcholinesterase (AChE) from various tissues of Mytilus trossulus caused by in vitro exposure to several pesticides and metals, because results available in the literature are inconsistent, difficult to compare, and sometimes contradict each other. For this purpose, fraction S10 extracted from gills, digestive gland, mantle and muscles, and the whole soft tissue of the mussel was exposed to several pesticides (dichlorvos, chlorpyrifos, fenitrothion, carbofuran and carbaryl) and metals (Cu, Zn, Cd, Hg, Pb) at a wide range of concentrations. AChE was inhibited in 50% or more in all the tissues exposed to dichlorvos, Cu, Hg and the mixture of Cu+Cd, and in some tissues exposed to carbaryl and carbofuran. The IC(50) was calculated where possible. No inhibition was found in the case of chlorpyrifos, Cd, Pb, and Zn.	1	pesticide
20390957	Simple analytical method for determination of pesticide residues in human serum by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry.	The aim of this study was to develop an analytical method for the determination of residues of organophosphorus and carbamate pesticides which are widely used in Tunisia. This method involves a liquid-liquid extraction procedure followed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) for the identification and quantification of compounds. Ionization of molecules was performed by the electrospray mode. Multiple reactions monitoring (MRM) was the acquisition mode used for the monitoring of two MS/MS transitions for each compound. The average recoveries obtained, at three different fortification levels, ranged between 65% and 106% for most of the pesticides studied, except for methamidophos (lower than 25%).The linearity of the method was in the range of 5 to 50 micro g/L with a correlation coefficient from 0.995 to 0.999, depending on the analyte. The estimated limit of detection and limit of quantification were 2 micro g/L and 5 micro g/L, respectively. The precision of the analytical procedure was satisfactory and the coefficients of variation, evaluated at three concentration levels were lower than 15% for most pesticides studied. The application of the method was investigated in a population of agricultural workers chronically exposed to various pesticides some of which, such as carbofuran, carbendazim, methomyl and pirimicarb, were detected in some serum samples.	1	pesticide
20391120	Organohalogens in a whale-blubber-supplemented diet affects hepatic retinol and renal tocopherol concentrations in greenland sled dogs (Canis familiaris).	The aim of this study was to examine the plasma, liver, and kidney status of vitamin A (retinol) and vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) in two groups of Greenland sled dogs (Canis familiaris), with a total number of 16 bitches and 8 pups. The dogs were fed either minke whale (Balaenoptera acuterostrata) blubber (exposed dogs) or uncontaminated (control group) porcine fat for up to 12 to 21 mo of age. The daily intake of 50-200 g whale blubber (mean: 112 g) constituted between 10.4 and 11.7 microg/kg body weight summation operatororganohalogen contaminants (OHC) (or between 4.6 and 6.1 microg/kg body weight summation operatorpolychlorinated biphenyls [PCB]). Retinol was approximately 18% and alpha-tocopherol 22% higher in the diet of the exposed dogs compared to controls. In adipose tissue, mean of SigmaOHC was 92 ng/g lipid weight (lw) and 5005 ng/g lw for all control (n = 12) and exposed dogs (n = 10), respectively. Hepatic retinol correlated negatively with Sigma-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane (SigmaDDT) and and Sigma-polybrominated diphenyl ethers (SigmaPBDE) for all exposed animals. A negative correlation between kidney alpha-tocopherol and SigmaPCB concentrations was observed, whereas two positive significant correlations were observed between kidney retinol and Sigma-chlordane-related compounds (SigmaCHL) and dieldrin concentrations. Hepatic alpha-tocopherol concentrations were significantly lower in exposed compared to controls, most likely due to a combination by OHC exposure and high dietary intake of unsaturated fatty acids. These results suggest that dietary exposure from OHC may, even at low concentrations, possibly affect retinol and alpha-tocopherol status in Arctic top predators.	1	pesticide
20398951	Alterations in mRNA expression of steroid receptors and heat shock proteins in the liver of rare minnow (Grobiocypris rarus) exposed to atrazine and p,p'-DDE.	The chaperon role of heat shock proteins (HSPs) throughout the life cycle of steroid receptors have been demonstrated in vitro. However, the actions of HSPs in steroid pathways in animals especially in fish were unclear. In this study, sexually mature rare minnows (Gobiocypris rarus) were exposed to typical endocrine disruptors (atrazine and p,p'-DDE). Hypertrophy of hepatocytes at the 333 microg/l atrazine treatment and atrophy of hepatocytes in all p,p'-DDE treatments were observed. The expression of liver hsp70 and hsp90 in atrazine treatments were significantly up-regulated. Moreover, remarkable increases in the expression of androgen receptor (ar) and estrogen receptor (er) were observed, while alterations of the glucoticorcoid receptor (gr) expression was not significant in atrazine exposed fish. The expression of ar, er, gr, hsp70 and hsp90 were significantly suppressed following p,p'-DDE exposure. These results demonstrate that the expression of hsp70 and hsp90 is altered along with changes of steroid receptors in vivo. Therefore, the results are consistent with the possibility that in fish heat shock proteins (HSPs) play chaperon roles for the steroid receptors in vivo, which also concurs with previous in vitro mammalian studies.	1	pesticide
20400596	Impact of grassed waterways and compost filter socks on the quality of surface runoff from corn fields.	Surface runoff from cropland frequently has high concentrations of nutrients and herbicides, particularly in the first few events after application. Grassed waterways can control erosion while transmitting this runoff offsite, but are generally ineffective in removing dissolved agrochemicals. In this study, we routed runoff from one tilled (0.67 ha) and one no-till watershed (0.79 ha) planted to corn (Zea mays L.) into parallel, 30-m-long grassed waterways. Two 46-cm-diam. filter socks filled with composted bark and wood chips were placed 7.5 m apart in the upper half of one waterway and in the lower half of the other waterway to determine if they decreased concentrations of sediment and dissolved chemicals. Automated samplers were used to obtain samples above and below the treated segments of the waterways for two crop years. The filter socks had no significant effect (P <or= 0.05) on sediment concentrations for runoff from the no-till watershed, but contributed to an additional 49% reduction in average sediment concentration compared with unamended waterways used with the tilled watershed. The filter socks significantly increased the concentrations of Cl, NO(3)-N, PO(4)-P, SO(4), Ca, K, Na, and Mg in runoff from at least one watershed, probably due to soluble forms of these ions in the compost. The estimated additional amounts of these ions contributed by the socks each year ranged from 0.04 to 1.2 kg, thus were likely to be inconsequential. The filter socks contributed to a significant (P <or= 0.05) additional reduction in dissolved glyphosate [N-(phosphonomethyl)glycine] (5%) and alachlor [2-chloro-N-(2,6-diethylphenyl)-N-(methoxymethyl)acetamide] (18%) concentrations for the tilled watersheds, but this was insufficient to reduce alachlor concentrations to acceptable levels.	1	pesticide
20416109	Insecticide resistance in Anopheles arabiensis (Diptera: Culicidae) from villages in central, northern and south west Ethiopia and detection of kdr mutation.	BACKGROUND: Anopheles arabiensis is the major vector of malaria in Ethiopia. Malaria vector control in Ethiopia is based on selective indoor residual spraying using DDT, distribution of long lasting insecticide treated nets and environmental management of larval breeding habitats. DDT and pyrethroid insecticides are neurotoxins and have a similar mode of action on the sodium ion channel of insects. It was therefore necessary to verify the insecticide susceptibility status of An. arabiensis, to better understand the status of cross-resistance between DDT and the pyrethroids in this species as well as to detect a resistant gene. METHODS: Standard WHO insecticide susceptibility tests were conducted on adults reared from larval and pupal collections from breeding sites at three villages namely: Sodere in the Rift Valley, Gorgora in the north and Ghibe River Valley in the south west of Ethiopia. The occurrence of cross-resistance between pyrethroids and DDT was determined using a DDT selected laboratory colony originally collected from Gorgora. Phenotypically characterized mosquitoes were tested for the presence of knockdown resistance (kdr) alleles using the standard polymerase chain reaction assay. RESULTS: All An. gambiae s.l. specimens assayed by PCR were identified as An. arabiensis. The knockdown and mortality results showed An. arabiensis resistance to DDT in all villages, resistance to deltamethrin and permethrin in the Ghibe River Valley and permethrin resistance in Gorgora. Bioassay susceptibility tests also indicated the presence of cross-resistance between DDT and permethrin, but not between DDT and deltamethrin. The knockdown resistance (kdr) mutation of leucine to phenylalanine in the sodium ion channel gene was detected in populations from Gorgora and the Ghibe River Valley. CONCLUSION: Since An. arabiensis shows high levels of resistance to DDT in all villages tested and varying pyrethroid resistance in Gorgora and the Ghibe River valley, precautionary measures should be taken in future vector control operations. Moreover, the status of resistance in other locations in Ethiopia and the spread of resistant gene (s) should be investigated.	1	pesticide
20429463	Insecticide resistance profiles and synergism in field populations of the German cockroach (Dictyoptera: Blattellidae) from Singapore.	The resistance profiles of 22 field-collected populations of the German cockroach, Blattella germanica (L.) (Dictyoptera: Blattellidae), from various localities in Singapore were determined by topical bioassay against novel and conventional insecticides from six classes: (1) pyrethroid (beta-cyfluthrin, deltamethrin), (2) carbamate (propoxur), (3) organophosphate (chlorpyrifos), (4) phenyl pyrazole (fipronil), (5) neonicotinoid (imidacloprid), and (6) oxadiazine (indoxacarb). Compared with a laboratory susceptible strain, resistance levels ranged from 3.0 to 468.0x for the pyrethroids, from 3.9 to 21.5x for the carbamate, from 1.5 to 22.8X for the organophosphate, from 1.0 to 10.0X for phenyl pyrazole, and were absent or low for the neonicotinoid (0.8-3.8x) and the oxadiazine (1.4-5.3x). One strain demonstrated broad-spectrum resistance to most of the insecticides. Synergism studies using piperonyl butoxide (PBO) and S,S,S-tributylphosphorotrithioate (DEF) in combination with a discriminating dose (LD99) of selected insecticides were conducted to test for possible resistance mechanisms. Resistance to pyrethroid was reduced with PBO and DEF, suggesting the involvement of P450 monooxygenase and esterases in conferring resistance. Propoxur resistance also was suppressed with PBO and DEF, and coadministration of both synergists resulted in complete negation of the resistance, indicating the involvement of both P450 monooxygenase and esterase. In six B. germanica field strains evaluated, esterases were found to play a role in chlorpyrifos resistance, whereas the P450 monoxygenase involvement was registered in three strains. Additional resistance mechanisms such as kdr-type and Rdl mutation contributing toward pyrethroid and fipronil resistance, respectively, also may be involved in some strains in which the resistance levels were not affected by the synergists. We conclude that insecticide resistance is prevalent in field German cockroach populations in Singapore.	1	pesticide
20444670	A review of pesticide exposure and cancer incidence in the Agricultural Health Study cohort.	OBJECTIVE: We reviewed epidemiologic evidence related to occupational pesticide exposures and cancer incidence in the Agricultural Health Study (AHS) cohort. DATA SOURCES: Studies were identified from the AHS publication list available at http://aghealth.nci.nih.gov as well as through a Medline/PubMed database search in March 2009. We also examined citation lists. Findings related to lifetime-days and/or intensity-weighted lifetime-days of pesticide use are the primary focus of this review, because these measures allow for the evaluation of potential exposure-response relationships. DATA SYNTHESIS: We reviewed 28 studies; most of the 32 pesticides examined were not strongly associated with cancer incidence in pesticide applicators. Increased rate ratios (or odds ratios) and positive exposure-response patterns were reported for 12 pesticides currently registered in Canada and/or the United States (alachlor, aldicarb, carbaryl, chlorpyrifos, diazinon, dicamba, S-ethyl-N,N-dipropylthiocarbamate, imazethapyr, metolachlor, pendimethalin, permethrin, trifluralin). However, estimates of association for specific cancers were often imprecise because of small numbers of exposed cases, and clear monotonic exposure-response patterns were not always apparent. Exposure misclassification is also a concern in the AHS and may limit the analysis of exposure-response patterns. Epidemiologic evidence outside the AHS remains limited with respect to most of the observed associations, but animal toxicity data support the biological plausibility of relationships observed for alachlor, carbaryl, metolachlor, pendimethalin, permethrin, and trifluralin. CONCLUSIONS: Continued follow-up is needed to clarify associations reported to date. In particular, further evaluation of registered pesticides is warranted.	1	pesticide
20474058	Determination of enantiomeric fractions of cypermethrin and cis-bifenthrin in Chinese teas by GC/ECD.	BACKGROUND: The pyrethroids cypermethrin and cis-bifenthrin are the major pesticides used in tea plantations in China. Potential neurotoxic, genotoxic and immunotoxic effects of chronic exposure to pyrethroids have been reported. All synthetic pyrethroids are chiral compounds. There is a need to investigate the chiral transformation among isomers after tea processing in order to obtain an accurate risk assessment of these compounds. RESULTS: The enantiomeric fraction (EF) of cis-bifenthrin residues was close to 0.5 in all tea samples tested, showing that the levels of (+)-isomer and (-)-isomer were equivalent and there was no preferential degradation. However, the patterns of EFs of cypermethrin residues varied depending on the type of tea. The EF of isomer 1R-3R-alphaS increased in black and dark tea samples (EF = 0.200-0.343) compared with the reference cypermethrin commercial mixture (EF = 0.116). In one oolong tea sample it was found that the relative abundance of some isomers was preferentially enhanced: 1R-3R-alphaS (EF = 0.260), 1S-3S-alphaR (EF = 0.263) and 1R-3S-alphaS/1S-3R-alphaR (the last elution peak, EF = 0.275). The relationship between EF and compound concentration was also analysed, showing that the variation in EFs of cypermethrin was concentration-dependent. CONCLUSION: These findings appear to be useful for assessing the species-specific risk of exposure to cypermethrin and cis-bifenthrin.	1	pesticide
20510513	Sorption properties of greenwaste biochar for two triazine pesticides.	Biochar is a carbon-rich product generated from biomass through pyrolysis. This study evaluated the ability of an unmodified biochar to sorb two triazine pesticides - atrazine and simazine, and thereby explored potential environmental values of biochar on mitigating pesticide pollution in agricultural production and removing contaminants from wastewater. A greenwaste biochar was produced by heating waste biomass under the oxygen-limited condition at 450 degrees C. The effects of several experimental parameters, including biochar particle size, contact time, solid/solution ratio, and solution pH on the sorption of atrazine and simazine were comprehensively investigated. The biochar with small particle size needed less time to reach sorption equilibrium. The sorption affinity of the biochar for the two pesticides increased with decreasing solid/solution ratio. The sorbed amounts (C(s)) of atrazine and simazine increased from 451 to 1158 mg/kg and 243 to 1066 mg/kg, respectively, when the solid/solution ratio decreased from 1:50 to 1:1000 (g/mL). The sorption of the biochar for both pesticides was favored by low pH. The sorption isotherms of atrazine and simazine on the biochar are nonlinear and follow a Freundlich model. When atrazine and simazine co-existed, a competitive sorption occurred between these two pesticides on the biochar, reflecting a decrease in sorption capacity (K(f)) from 435 to 286 for atrazine and from 514 to 212 for simazine. Combined adsorption and partition mechanisms well depicted sorption of atrazine and simazine on carbonized and noncarbonized fractions of the biochar in the single-solute and co-solute systems.	1	pesticide
20537677	Phototransformation of selected organophosphorus pesticides: roles of hydroxyl and carbonate radicals.	The phototransformation of two organophosphorus pesticides, parathion and chlorpyrifos, by hydroxyl radicals and carbonate radicals in aqueous solution were studied. Addition of hydrogen peroxide increased the UV degradation rates of both pesticides and data were simulated through kinetic modeling. The second-order rate constants of parathion and chlorpyrifos with hydroxyl radical were determined to be 9.7 +/- 0.5 x 10(9) and 4.9 +/- 0.1 x 10(9) M(-1) s(-1), respectively. The presence of bi/carbonate ions reduced the pesticide degradation rates via scavenging of hydroxyl radical but the formation of carbonate radical also contributed to the degradation of the pesticides with second-order reaction rate constants of 2.8 +/- 0.2 x 10(6) and 8.8 +/- 0.4 x 10(6) M(-1) s(-1) for parathion and chlorpyrifos, respectively. The dual roles of bicarbonate ion in UV/H2O2 treatment systems, i.e., scavenging of hydroxyl radicals and formation of carbonate radicals, were examined and discussed using a simulative kinetic model. The transformation of pesticides by carbonate radicals at environmentally relevant bi/carbonate concentrations was shown to be a significant contributor to the environmental fate of the pesticides and it reshaped the general phototransformation kinetics of both pesticides in UV/H2O2 systems.	1	pesticide
20541298	Acute and chronic toxicity of Roundup Weathermax and Ignite 280 SL to larval Spea multiplicata and S. bombifrons from the Southern High Plains, USA.	Pesticides have been implicated in widespread amphibian declines. We assessed acute and chronic toxicity of two widely used herbicides to larval New Mexico (Spea multiplicata) and Plains (S. bombifrons) spadefoots from cropland and native grassland playas. Roundup WeatherMAX (WM) toxicity estimates (48- and 216-h LC(50); 48-h LC(1)) for both species were similar to environmental concentrations expected from accidental overspray. Chronic (30-day) exposure to WM at predicted environmental concentrations (2.0 and 2.8 mg glyphosate acid equivalents/L) reduced survival of both species. Ignite 280 SL (IG) toxicity estimates (48-h LC(50) and LC(1)) for both species were above predicted environmental concentrations of 1.0 mg glufosinate/L. Chronic exposure to predicted environmental concentrations of IG did not reduce survival of either species. Toxicity test results suggest that at predicted environmental concentrations IG would not cause extensive mortalities among larval New Mexico and Plains spadefoots. However, WM may cause extensive mortality among larvae of these species.	1	pesticide
20541641	Optimization and validation of liquid-liquid extraction with low temperature partitioning for determination of carbamates in water.	Using a 2(3) experimental design, liquid-liquid extraction with low temperature partitioning (LLE-LTP) was optimized and validated for analysis of three carbamates (aldicarb, carbofuran and carbaryl) in water samples. In this method, 2.0 mL of sample is placed in contact with 4.0 mL of acetonitrile. After agitation, the sample is placed in a freezer for 3 h for phase separation. The organic extract is analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet detection (HPLC-UV). For validation of the technique, the following figures of merit were evaluated: accuracy, precision, detection and quantification limits, linearity, sensibility and selectivity. Extraction recovery percentages of the carbamates aldicarb, carbofuran and carbaryl were 90%, 95% and 96%, respectively. Even though extremely low volumes of sample and solvent were used, the extraction method was selective and the detection and quantification limits were between 5.0 and 10.0 microg L(-1), and 17.0 and 33.0 microg L(-1), respectively.	1	pesticide
20545921	Insecticide resistance of Triatoma infestans (Hemiptera, Reduviidae) vector of Chagas disease in Bolivia.	OBJECTIVE: To define the insecticide resistance status of Triatoma infestans to deltamethrin (pyrethroid), malathion (organophosphate) and bendiocarb (carbamate) in Bolivia. METHODS: Fifty populations of T. infestans were sampled in Bolivian human dwellings. Quantal response data were obtained by topical applications of 0.2 μl of insecticide-acetone solutions on nymphs N1 of the F1 generations. For most populations, dose-mortality relationships and resistance ratios (RR) were analysed. Discriminating concentrations were established for each insecticide with a susceptible reference strain and used on the other field populations. A tarsal-contact diagnostic test using insecticide impregnated papers was designed to rapidly identify deltamethrin-resistant populations in the field. RESULTS: Discriminating concentrations for topical applications were 5, 70 and 120 ng active ingredient per insect for deltamethrin, bendiocarb and malathion, respectively. The diagnostic concentration for deltamethrin was 0.30% for the 1-h exposure by tarsal contact. All populations sampled in human dwellings exhibited significant levels of resistance to deltamethrin, from 6 to 491 and varied among regions. Resistant populations did not recover complete susceptibility to deltamethrin when the synergist piperonyl butoxide (PBO) was used. None of the sampled populations exhibited significant resistance to bendiocarb (all RR(50) < 1.8) or malathion (all RR(50) < 2.2). CONCLUSION: In Bolivia, most 'domestic' T. infestans populations are resistant to deltamethrin. Because insecticide vector control is the only selection pressure, resistance likely originates from it. Switching from pyrethroids to organophosphates or carbamates could be a short-term solution to control this vector, but other alternative integrated control strategies should also be considered in the long term.	1	pesticide
20553992	Determination and aquatic risk assessment of pesticide residues in riparian drainage canals in northeastern Greece.	An approach combining monitoring and ecotoxicological data has been undertaken to assess pesticide loading in the drainage canals of two transboundary rivers of northeastern Greece near the Greek/Bulgarian/Turkish borders as well as the subsequent risk to non-target aquatic organisms. Aquatic risk assessment was based on the Risk Quotient (RQ=MEC/PNEC) regarding three trophic levels, algae, aquatic invertebrates and fish. Alachlor, atrazine, carbaryl, carbofuran, cypermethrin, DEA, DIA, diazinon, dimethoate, endosulfan, metolachlor, monilate, prometryn and trifluralin were the compounds detected at the highest concentrations on a regular basis. Extreme concentrations were observed just after high rainfall events during the month of pesticide application. Aquatic risk assessment revealed non-acceptable risk for 10 compounds when median concentrations were used as ΜEC values. However, should extreme concentrations be taken into account, 15 compounds were considered as likely to pose a threat to aquatic organisms. Conformity to EC environmental quality standards is also discussed.	1	pesticide
20563640	Pesticide concentrations in water and sediment and associated invertebrate toxicity in Del Puerto and Orestimba Creeks, California, 2007-2008.	The California's San Joaquin River and its tributaries including Orestimba (ORC) and Del Puerto (DPC) Creeks are listed on the 2006 US EPA Clean Water Act §303(d) list for pesticide impairment. From December 2007 through June 2008, water and sediment samples were collected from both creeks in Stanislaus County to determine concentrations of organophosphorus (OP) and pyrethroid insecticides and to identify toxicity to Ceriodaphnia dubia and Hyalella azteca. OPs were detected in almost half (10 of 21) of the water samples, at concentrations from 0.005 to 0.912 μg L(-1). Diazinon was the most frequently detected OP, followed by chlorpyrifos and dimethoate. Two water samples were toxic to C. dubia; based on median lethal concentrations (LC50), chlorpyrifos was likely the cause of this toxicity. Pyrethroids were detected more frequently in sediment samples (18 detections) than in water samples (three detections). Pyrethroid concentrations in water samples ranged from 0.005 to 0.021 μg L(-1). These concentrations were well below reported C. dubia LC50s, and toxicity was not observed in laboratory bioassays. Cyfluthrin, bifenthrin, esfenvalerate, and λ-cyhalothrin were detected in sediment samples at concentrations ranging from 1.0 to 74.4 ng g(-1), dry weight. At DPC, all but one sediment sample caused 100% toxicity to H. azteca. Based on estimated toxicity units (TUs), bifenthrin was likely responsible for this toxicity and λ-cyhalothrin also contributed. At ORC, survival of H. azteca was significantly reduced in four of the 11 sediment samples. However, pyrethroids were detected in only two of these samples. Based on TUs, bifenthrin and λ-cyhalothrin likely contributed to the toxicity.	1	pesticide
20573246	Reduced susceptibility to selected synthetic pyrethroids in urban malaria vector Anopheles stephensi: a case study in Mangalore city, South India.	BACKGROUND: Synthetic pyrethroids are potent insecticides most commonly used in the vector control programme. These are applied for indoor residual sprays, space sprays and in impregnated bed nets. Resistance reduces the efficacy of insecticides. Thus, the susceptibility status of the target vector(s) is monitored routinely to select the effective ones. A study was undertaken in a malaria endemic coastal city Mangalore, Karnataka, South India, against the known malaria vector Anopheles stephensi. METHODS: The susceptibility status was assessed at diagnostic doses of DDT (4%), malathion (5%), deltamethrin (0.05%), cyfluthrin (0.15%), alphacypermethrin (0.10%), lambdacyhalothrin (0.05%) and permethrin (0.75%) using the standard WHO tube test method during October/November 2006. RESULTS: Anopheles stephensi was resistant to malathion by 54.9%, but tolerant to deltamethrin by 86.1%, cyfluthrin 95.5% and alphacypermethrin 90.6%, whereas it was susceptible to DDT by 98.1%, lambdacyhalothrin 98.6% and permethrin 100.0%, respectively. The KDT50 and KDT95 values for these insecticides also showed the similar responses. CONCLUSION: Susceptibility of An. stephensi to DDT is an important finding as this has never been used in Mangalore city, whereas its rural counterpart Anopheles culicifacies is widely resistant to this insecticide. The study explores the selection and rotation of the appropriate insecticide molecule even within the same group for effective vector management.	1	pesticide
20578541	The life cycle and effectiveness of insecticides against the bed bugs of Thailand.	The purpose of this study was to determine the life cycle and effectiveness of insecticides against bed bugs in Thailand. Bed bugs from dwelling places in Chon Buri and Chiang Mai provinces were determined to be Cimex hemipterus and Cimex lectularius, respectively. Both bed bug species were reared by feeding on rabbit blood at 2-day intervals in laboratory conditions at 28-32 degrees C with 75% relative humidity. The duration from egg to adult stages took 39.9 +/- 7.0 and 36.9 +/- 8.2 days in C. hemipterus and C. lectularius, respectively. The insecticides, propetamphos 20% CS, pirimiphos-methyl 50% EC, bifenthrin 25% WP and alpha-cypermethrin 5% SC, were tested against adult C. lectularius using a Potter spray tower. The concentrations at which 50% of bed bugs were either dead or moribund (ED50) for propetamphos and pirimiphos-methyl were 6.67 and 14.93 mg/m2 for the active ingredients on day 3 and the ED50 for bifenthrin and alpha-cypermethrin were 1,767.76 and 353.55 mg/m2, respectively. The results reveal C. lectularius in Thailand has a tendency to develop pyrethroid resistance.	1	pesticide
20579498	Validation of an off line solid phase extraction liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method for the determination of systemic insecticide residues in honey and pollen samples collected in apiaries from NW Spain.	The use of pesticides to protect crops against plagues and insects is one of the most important ways to assure agricultural quality and productivity. However, bad application practices may cause the contamination of different environmental compartments and animal species, as a consequence of migration or accumulation of those compounds. Fipronil, imidacloprid and thiametoxam are systemic or systemic-like insecticides widely used in maize crops. Their heavy action in the nervous system of target insects also means a high toxicity to non-target pollinator insects such as honey bees which can get in touch with them through pollen and nectar during foraging activities. These insecticides have even been suspected to cause a significant decrease of honeybee colonies that has been observed in many countries since the past decade. Since September 1st 2008, the European Commission set new MRLs in food and feed of plant and animal origin. The pesticides included in this study have MRLs in honey and pollen between 10 and 50 ng g(-1). In the present work, an analytical method was developed with the aim of determining residues of fipronil and some of its metabolites (fipronil sulfone, fipronil sulfide, fipronil desulfinyl and fipronil carboxamide), thiamethoxam and imidacloprid in honey and pollen samples. The extraction optimization was performed using a Doehlert experimental design by studying two factors, the mixture and the ratio of solvents used. Prior to the extraction procedure, raw hive samples containing honey, pollen and wax were centrifuged at 4000 rpm. The upper solid material was removed, and 1 g of the lower phase was mixed with 3 mL of the optimized mixture of methanol/water (10/90). The extract was passed through a florisil cartridge and the target compounds were eluted with methanol and analysed by LC-MS/MS in selective reaction monitoring (SRM) mode. The method was validated according to the guidelines included in the SANCO/10684/2009 document and the ISO 11843 standard for the following parameters: decision limit (CCalpha), detection capability (CCbeta), recovery, repeatability and reproducibility at 0.5, 1 and 1.5 folds the MRLs. Ion suppression/enhancement effects into the ion source were also assessed. The CCbeta values were included between 0.83 and 4.83 ng g(-1), well below the current MRLs. The validated method was applied to the determination of the target pesticides in 91 samples collected in colonies from 73 apiaries of NW Spain (two sampling campaigns during 2008). None of the target insecticides were detected among all the collected samples.	1	pesticide
20587072	Malignant mammary tumor in female dogs: environmental contaminants.	Mammary tumors of female dogs have greatly increased in recent years, thus demanding rapid diagnosis and effective treatment in order to determine the animal survival. There is considerable scientific interest in the possible role of environmental contaminants in the etiology of mammary tumors, specifically in relation to synthetic chemical substances released into the environment to which living beings are either directly or indirectly exposed. In this study, the presence of pyrethroid insecticide was observed in adjacent adipose tissue of canine mammary tumor. High Precision Liquid Chromatography - HPLC was adapted to detect and identify environmental contaminants in adipose tissue adjacent to malignant mammary tumor in nine female dogs, without predilection for breed or age. After surgery, masses were carefully examined for malignant neoplastic lesions. Five grams of adipose tissue adjacent to the tumor were collected to detect of environmental contaminants. The identified pyrethroids were allethrin, cyhalothrin, cypermethrin, deltamethrin and tetramethrin, with a contamination level of 33.3%. Histopathology demonstrated six female dogs (66.7%) as having complex carcinoma and three (33.3%) with simple carcinoma. From these tumors, seven (77.8%) presented aggressiveness degree III and two (22.2%) degree I. Five tumors were positive for estrogen receptors in immunohistochemical analysis. The contamination level was observed in more aggressive tumors. This was the first report in which the level of environmental contaminants could be detected in adipose tissue of female dogs with malignant mammary tumor, by HPLC. Results suggest the possible involvement of pyrethroid in the canine mammary tumor carcinogenesis. Hence, the dog may be used as a sentinel animal for human breast cancer, since human beings share the same environment and basically have the same eating habits.	1	pesticide
20591573	Prevention of endemic canine vector-borne diseases using imidacloprid 10% and permethrin 50% in young dogs: a longitudinal field study.	Canine vector-borne diseases (CVBDs) are highly prevalent and increasing in distribution worldwide. A longitudinal study was conducted in southern Italy to determine the incidence of and protection against CVBD-causing pathogens in dogs treated with a combination of imidacloprid 10% and permethrin 50% (ImPer). One hundred eleven autochthonous young dogs were divided into group A (n=63) and group B (n=48), both groups containing dogs positive and negative for one or more CVBD-causing pathogens. Additionally, 10 naïve male beagles were introduced in each group in May 2008. Group A was treated with ImPer on day 0 and every 21+/-2 days whereas group B was left untreated. Blood and skin samples were collected at baseline (March-April 2008) and at the first, second and third follow-up times (July and October 2008 and April 2009). Bone marrow was sampled at baseline and at the third follow-up. Serological, cytological and molecular tests were performed to detect Anaplasma platys, Babesia spp., Bartonella spp., Dirofilaria immitis, Ehrlichia canis, Hepatozoon canis and Leishmania infantum. Ectoparasites (fleas, ticks, and sand flies) were monitored throughout the study. The baseline prevalence of CVBDs was 39.6% with 44 dogs positive for at least one pathogen. A. platys (27.5%) and Babesia spp. (15.6%) were the most prevalent species and co-infections with up to two pathogens were detected in 16 (14.7%) individuals. At the end of the evaluation period, there was a 90.7% reduction in overall CVBD incidence density rate (IDR) in group A, as following: 100% reduction in L. infantum; 94.6% in E. canis; 94.4% in Babesia spp.; and 81.8% in A. platys. Initially positive treated dogs showed significantly lower pathogen prevalence at the third follow-up than untreated ones. At the end of the evaluation period, 8 of the 10 untreated beagles were infected with at least one pathogen whereas one of the treated beagles was A. platys positive at a single time point (second follow-up). Overall efficacy against ticks was 97.9%. In October 2009, samples were collected from the remaining 83 dogs (44 from group A and 39 from group B) to investigate the annual incidence of CVBDs in the same, at this time untreated, dog population. A high year incidence for tick-borne diseases (78.1%) and for L. infantum (13.6%) was detected in dogs from group A, seven months after the treatment had been withdrawn. The results demonstrate that ImPer preventive treatment against arthropods protects autochthonous and naïve beagle dogs against CVBD-causing pathogens.	1	pesticide
20594640	Selection of low cost materials for the sorption of copper and herbicides as single or mixed compounds in increasing complexity matrices.	Low cost materials (sugar beet pulp, corncob, corncob char, perlite, vermiculite, sand, sediment) have been tested for their ability to quickly sorb copper, glyphosate, diuron and 3,4-dichloroaniline (3,4-DCA) as single or mixed compounds. Tests have been performed in increasingly complex liquid matrices: ultra pure water (UPW), runoff water (RW) and sediment extract medium (SEM). Highest sorption levels in UPW are achieved with corncob char for Cu (93%), glyphosate (74%), diuron (98%) and 3,4-DCA (99%). Other ready-to-use adequate sorbents are sugar beet pulp for Cu and sand for glyphosate, diuron and 3,4-DCA. Sorption levels obtained in UPW are significantly altered in SEM as a result of its higher dissolved organic carbon concentration, tenuous changes being obtained with RW. Interactions between herbicides and Cu are pointed out: higher sorption level is observed for glyphosate in mixture with Cu, as it is observed with diuron and 3,4-DCA when mixed with all other pollutants. Langmuir model has been found to better fit the data for copper, whereas Freundlich one has been found more relevant for diuron and 3,4-DCA. Our results stress the need for studying adsorption in different matrices when searching for sorbents to be used in field conditions.	1	pesticide
20598518	Development of an immunochromatographic assay for the rapid detection of chlorpyrifos-methyl in water samples.	A rapid (less than 10 min), qualitative and semi-quantitative immunochromatography using colloidal gold-antibody probe was successfully developed and applied in determination of chlorpyrifos-methyl (a wide-spectrum organophosphorus pesticide) in water samples. The qualitative detection limit of chlorpyrifos-methyl was determined as 0.6 μg ml(-1) by using immunochromatography. In the semi-quantitative experiment, the detection results of chlorpyrifos-methyl were scanned by a membrane strip reader, and a detection curve representing the scanned data average was obtained. After conversion, it was observed that in the range of 50-12,150 ng ml(-1), the graph between logit(B/B(0)) and logarithm of concentration of chlorpyrifos-methyl was linear, from which, the regression equation (y =-2.5229 x +7.5951, R(2)=0.9889) and IC(50) value (1024.39 ng ml(-1)) was obtained, respectively. Meanwhile, the detection limit was calculated as 132.91 ng ml(-1) by the extrapolation of B(0)-2SD. In addition, the cross-reactivities were less than 1% with tested analog compounds and regarded as negligible. The recoveries obtained by standard chlorpyrifos-methyl addition to water samples were 102.5-107.6%. Overall, to our knowledge, this is the first report of qualitative and semi-quantitative detection of chlorpyrifos-methyl by immunochromatography.	1	pesticide
20623116	Influence of a combination of agricultural chemicals on embryos of the endangered gold-striped salamander (Chioglossa lusitanica).	Pollution from agrochemicals may be contributing to the global decline of amphibian populations. Environmentally relevant concentrations of a fertiliser, ammonium nitrate, and a commercial formulation of the herbicide glyphosate Roundup Plus were tested on the embryonic development of Chioglossa lusitanica. This study introduces new data at three different levels. First, we provide previously unknown information about hatchling traits of C. lusitanica. Second, we present the first ecotoxicological study of this endangered species, to which environmental pollution is considered a major threat. Third, we conduct the first experiment with an amphibian species exposed to a mixture of a glyphosate-based herbicide and a nitrogenous fertiliser. Control individuals hatched with an average (±SD) total length of 18.77 (±2.02) mm and at an average Harrison's developmental stage of 44.58 (±1.24). Mean hatching time among controls was 11.52 (±1.29) weeks. None of the chemicals or their interaction produced lethal effects; however, a significant interaction was found when analysing total length at hatching. Individuals exposed to the herbicide hatched at a larger size than controls, and this effect was especially clear when the fertiliser was added to the water. The absence of pollutant-related mortality or severe sublethal effects is in agreement with most studies indicating a high tolerance of amphibian embryos to agrochemicals. However, further research considering other life stages and additional natural factors (i.e., predators, food availability) is needed to estimate the ecological impact of chemical mixtures on C. lusitanica.	1	pesticide
20686345	Effect of imidacloprid on antioxidant enzymes and lipid peroxidation in female rats to derive its No Observed Effect Level (NOEL).	Technical imidacloprid was evaluated for its effect on oxidative stress and Lipid peroxidation (LPO) in female rats for No Observed Effect Level (NOEL). Activities of Superoxide dismutase (SOD), Catalase (CAT), Glutathione peroxidase (GPx), and level of Glutathione (GSH) and LPO were estimated in liver, kidney and brain of rats after oral administration of imidacloprid (5, 10, 20 mg/kg/day) for 90 days. Imidacloprid at 5 and 10 mg/kg/day has not produced changes in SOD, CAT, GPx and level of GSH and LPO in liver, brain and kidney. However 20 mg/kg/day has produced significant changes in SOD, CAT, GPx, GSH, LPO in liver; SOD, CAT and GPx in brain and LPO in kidney. Therefore, it is concluded that imidacloprid has not generated oxidative stress at 5 and 10mg/kg/day but induced changes at 20 mg/kg/day. Hence 10 mg/kg/day may be considered as NOEL through antioxidant enzymes and LPO in female rats.	1	pesticide
20686697	Pyrethroid resistance in an Anopheles funestus population from Uganda.	BACKGROUND: The susceptibility status of Anopheles funestus to insecticides remains largely unknown in most parts of Africa because of the difficulty in rearing field-caught mosquitoes of this malaria vector. Here we report the susceptibility status of the An. funestus population from Tororo district in Uganda and a preliminary characterisation of the putative resistance mechanisms involved. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: A new forced egg laying technique used in this study significantly increased the numbers of field-caught females laying eggs and generated more than 4000 F1 adults. WHO bioassays indicated that An. funestus in Tororo is resistant to pyrethroids (62% mortality after 1 h exposure to 0.75% permethrin and 28% mortality to 0.05% deltamethrin). Suspected DDT resistance was also observed with 82% mortality. However this population is fully susceptible to bendiocarb (carbamate), malathion (organophosphate) and dieldrin with 100% mortality observed after exposure to each of these insecticides. Sequencing of a fragment of the sodium channel gene containing the 1014 codon conferring pyrethroid/DDT resistance in An. gambiae did not detect the L1014F kdr mutation but a correlation between haplotypes and resistance phenotype was observed indicating that mutations in other exons may be conferring the knockdown resistance in this species. Biochemical assays suggest that resistance in this population is mediated by metabolic resistance with elevated level of GSTs, P450s and pNPA compared to a susceptible strain of Anopheles gambiae. RT-PCR further confirmed the involvement of P450s with a 12-fold over-expression of CYP6P9b in the Tororo population compared to the fully susceptible laboratory colony FANG. CONCLUSION: This study represents the first report of pyrethroid/DDT resistance in An. funestus from East Africa. With resistance already reported in southern and West Africa, this indicates that resistance in An. funestus may be more widespread than previously assumed and therefore this should be taken into account for the implementation and management of vector control programs in Africa.	1	pesticide
20694511	Organochlorine pesticides in the surface water and sediments from the Peacock River Drainage Basin in Xinjiang, China: a study of an arid zone in Central Asia.	Fourteen surface water and nine surface sediment samples were collected from the Peacock River and analyzed for organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) by gas chromatograph-electron capture detector (GC-ECD). All the analyzed organochlorine pesticides, except o,p'-DDT, were detected in sediments from the Peacock River; but in the water samples, only β-HCH, HCB, p,p'-DDD, and p,p'-DDT were detected at some sites. The ranges for total OCPs in the water and sediments were from N.D. to 195 ng l( - 1) and from 1.36 to 24.60 ng g( - 1), respectively. The only existing HCH isomer in the water, β-HCH, suggested that the contamination by HCHs could be attributed to erosion of the weathered agricultural soils containing HCHs compounds. Composition analyses showed that no technical HCH, technical DDT, technical chlordanes, endosulfans, and HCB had been recently used in this region. However, there was new input of γ-HCH (lindane) into the Peacock River. The most probable source was water flowing from Bosten Lake and/or agricultural tailing water that was returned directly into the Peacock River. DDT compounds in the sediments may be derived mainly from DDT-treated aged and weathered agricultural soils, the degradation condition was aerobic and the main product was DDE. HCB in the sediment might be due to the input from Bosten Lake and the lake may act as an atmospheric deposition zone. There was no significant correlation between the concentrations of OCPs (including ∑HCH, ∑DDT, chlordanes, endosulfans, HCB and total OCPs) and the content of fine particles (<63 μm). The concentrations of OCPs were affected by salinity.	1	pesticide
20703448	Persistence behaviour of thiamethoxam and lambda cyhalothrin in transplanted paddy.	A field study was conducted in Pre-Kharif season 2007 on paddy to determine the persistence of thiamethoxam (12.6%) and lambda cyhalothrin (9.4%) [in a 'Readymix' formulation Alika 247 ZC], following the application of 33 g. a.i. ha⁻¹ (T₁) and 66 g. a.i. ha⁻¹ (T₂). Spraying of insecticide was done during milking stage of the crop (63 days after transplantation). Thiamethoxam and lambda cyhalothrin residues were estimated by HPLC and GLC respectively. The half-life values were 5.2-5.8 and 4.8 days for thiamethoxam and lambda cyhalothrin respectively. No residue was detected in the harvested paddy, straw, grain, and soil samples.	1	pesticide
20711777	Variability in the dynamics of mortality and immobility responses of freshwater arthropods exposed to chlorpyrifos.	The species sensitivity distribution (SSD) concept is an important probabilistic tool for environmental risk assessment (ERA) and accounts for differences in species sensitivity to different chemicals. The SSD model assumes that the sensitivity of the species included is randomly distributed. If this assumption is violated, indicator values, such as the 50% hazardous concentration, can potentially change dramatically. Fundamental research, however, has discovered and described specific mechanisms and factors influencing toxicity and sensitivity for several model species and chemical combinations. Further knowledge on how these mechanisms and factors relate to toxicologic standard end points would be beneficial for ERA. For instance, little is known about how the processes of toxicity relate to the dynamics of standard toxicity end points and how these may vary across species. In this article, we discuss the relevance of immobilization and mortality as end points for effects of the organophosphate insecticide chlorpyrifos on 14 freshwater arthropods in the context of ERA. For this, we compared the differences in response dynamics during 96 h of exposure with the two end points across species using dose response models and SSDs. The investigated freshwater arthropods vary less in their immobility than in their mortality response. However, differences in observed immobility and mortality were surprisingly large for some species even after 96 h of exposure. As expected immobility was consistently the more sensitive end point and less variable across the tested species and may therefore be considered as the relevant end point for population of SSDs and ERA, although an immobile animal may still potentially recover. This is even more relevant because an immobile animal is unlikely to survive for long periods under field conditions. This and other such considerations relevant to the decision-making process for a particular end point are discussed.	1	pesticide
20721665	Toxicological effects of selective herbicides on plant growth promoting activities of phosphate solubilizing Klebsiella sp. strain PS19.	This study examines the effect of four herbicides, quizalafop-p-ethyl, clodinafop, metribuzin and glyphosate, on plant growth promoting activities like phosphate solubilization, siderophores, indole acetic acid, exo-polysaccharides, hydrogen cyanide and ammonia production by herbicide tolerant Klebsiella sp. strain PS19. The strain was isolated from mustard rhizosphere. The selected herbicides were applied two to three times at the recommended rates. Klebsiella sp. strain PS19 tolerated a concentration of 1600 μg/ml each of quizalafop-p-ethyl and clodinafop, and 3200 and 2800 μg/ml of metribuzin and glyphosate, respectively. The activities of Klebsiella sp. strain PS19 observed under in vitro environment were persistent in the presence of all herbicides at lower rates. The plant growth promoting activities even-though decreased regularly, but was not lost completely, as the concentration of each herbicide was increased from the recommended to three times of higher doses. Among all herbicides, quizalafop-p-ethyl, generally, showed maximum toxicity to plant growth promoting activities of Klebsiella sp. strain PS19. As an example, 40, 80 and 120 μg/l of quizalafop-p-ethyl added to liquid culture Pikovskaya medium, decreased phosphate solubilizing activity of strain PS19 by 93, 95 and 97%, respectively over untreated control. The study revealed that the higher rates of herbicides though decreased the plant growth promoting activity but it did not completely inhibit the metabolic activities of strain PS19. The herbicide tolerance together with growth promoting activities observed under herbicide stress suggests that Klebsiella sp. strain PS19 could be used as bacterial preparation for facilitating the growth and yields of crops even in soils polluted with herbicides.	1	pesticide
20721972	Insecticide resistance in field populations of Bemisia tabaci (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae) in West Africa.	BACKGROUND: The tobacco whitefly, Bemisia tabaci Gennadius (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae), has developed a high degree of resistance to several chemical classes of insecticides throughout the world. To evaluate the resistance status in West Africa, eight insecticides from different chemical families were tested using the leaf-dip method on four field populations collected from cotton in Benin, Togo and Burkina Faso. RESULTS: Some field populations showed a significant loss of susceptibility to pyrethroids such as deltamethrin [resistance ratio (RR) 3-5] and bifenthrin (RR 4-36), to organophosphates (OPs) such as dimethoate (RR 8-15) and chlorpyrifos (RR 5-7) and to neonicotinoids such as acetamiprid (RR 7-8) and thiamethoxam (RR 3-7). Bemisia tabaci was also resistant to pymetrozine (RR 3-18) and to endosulfan (RR 14-30). CONCLUSION: The resistance of B. tabaci to pyrethroids and OPs is certainly due to their systematic use in cotton treatments for more than 30 years. Acetamiprid has been recently introduced for the control of whiteflies. Unfortunately, B. tabaci populations from Burkina Faso seem to be already resistant. Because cross-resistance between these compounds has never been observed elsewhere, resistance to neonicotinoids could be due to the presence of an invasive B. tabaci biotype recently detected in the region.	1	pesticide
20730992	Acute toxicity of chlorantraniliprole to non-target crayfish (Procambarus clarkii) associated with rice-crayfish cropping systems.	BACKGROUND: Chlorantraniliprole, a novel anthranilic diamide insecticide, was recently introduced into the United States where rice-crayfish crop rotations are practiced to control rice water weevil (Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel) infestations. Chlorantraniliprole has high margins of mammalian safety and excellent insecticidal efficacy, but its toxicity to non-target crayfish is uncertain. In this study, the acute toxicity of chlorantraniliprole to the red swamp crayfish Procambarus clarkii Girard was determined using aquatic and feeding assays. RESULTS: The aquatic 96 h median lethal toxicity (LC(50)) data indicate that technical-grade chlorantraniliprole is highly toxic (US EPA category) to crayfish with an LC(50) of 951 microg L(-1) (95% CL = 741-1118 microg L(-1)). A no observed effect concentration (NOEC) of 480 microg L(-1) was recorded. Neither the 36 day chronic feeding study, where crayfish fed on chlorantraniliprole-treated rice seed in aquaria, nor the 144 h acute feeding test, where crayfish fed on rice seeds treated with chlorantraniliprole, produced mortality or abnormal behavior. CONCLUSION: Chlorantraniliprole is three orders of magnitude less acutely toxic to P. clarkii than lambda-cyhalothrin and etofenprox, two pyrethroid insecticides also used in rice, and is less likely to cause acute crayfish toxicity in rice pond ecosystems. Based on acute toxicity data, the use of chlorantraniliprole should be more compatible with rice-crayfish crop rotations than pyrethroids.	1	pesticide
20730994	A new molecular method for the rapid detection of a metamitron-resistant target site in Chenopodium album.	BACKGROUND: Resistance to photosystem II inhibitors-triazines (atrazine) and triazinones (metamitron, metribuzin)-in Chenopodium album L. is caused by the serine 264 to glycine mutation in the D1 protein. This mutation has been detected in C. album collections from Belgium with unsatisfactory metamitron efficacy in the field and was confirmed in greenhouse resistance bioassays. Incomplete herbicide efficacy in practice can also be caused by reduced uptake due to environmental conditions. Hence, for reliable differentiation and resistance identification, a rapid method for mutation detection in the target gene psbA is required. RESULTS: Dose-response curves obtained in herbicide greenhouse assays with metamitron-resistant and -susceptible reference biotypes showed that a dose of 2 L ha(-1) metamitron was suitable for discrimination. A psbA PCR-RFLP was developed, based on the presence of a FspBI restriction enzyme recognition site, covering D1 codon 264 in susceptible genotypes. A paper-based DNA extraction allowed direct processing of leaf samples already in the field. In order to detect the mutation even in mixed seed samples, a nested PCR-RFLP was also developed. CONCLUSION: The method allows exhaustive surveys screening C. album leaf or seed samples for the occurrence of the D1 Ser264Gly mutation to confirm or disprove metamitron resistance in the case of unsatisfactory control.	1	pesticide
20800091	Accumulation of pyrethroid compounds in primary cultures from rat cortex.	Recent studies have demonstrated that lipophilic compounds (e.g., methylmercury, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and polybrominated diphenylethers (PBDEs)) rapidly accumulate in cells in culture to concentrations much higher than in the surrounding media. Primary cultures of neurons have been widely utilized to study the actions of pyrethroids, yet pyrethroid accumulation in these cells has not been studied to date. To test the hypothesis that pyrethroids rapidly accumulate in neurons in vitro, the time (0-90 min) and concentration (0.05-10 μM) dependent accumulation of [(3)H]-deltamethrin (DM), [(3)H]-bifenthrin (BF) and [(14)C]-cis permethrin (PM) into primary cortical cultures was examined. Accumulation of all three pyrethroids was time- and concentration-dependent, with only small differences observed between the compounds. Concentration-dependent accumulation of PM and BF were similar, achieving a of total ∼0.25 nmol in cells after 30 min in a 10 μM solution. DM accumulation was lower, reaching a maximum of 0.14 nmol after 30 min in a 10 μM solution. In 1 μM solutions, DM and PM content in cells were 0.039 and 0.038 nmol after 90 min. At all concentrations and times, pyrethroid accumulation in cells was less than 5% of the total mass applied for DM and PM, and was less than 8% for BF. However, after 90 min, accumulation of all three compounds increased to as much as ∼30-50-fold higher than the surrounding medium. The amount of compound recovered in the media at the end of incubation ranged from ∼77% to 89%; the remainder (6-15%) was presumed to bind to the plastic of the culture plates. These results demonstrate rapid time- and concentration-dependent accumulation of pyrethroids in neurons in vitro. Further, for the three pyrethroids examined, there were not statistically significant differences in their accumulation. This data will be useful for making comparisons between in vivo and in vitro studies regarding effective concentrations of pyrethroids.	1	pesticide
20806890	Larvicidal activity of Asarum heterotropoides root constituents against insecticide-susceptible and -resistant Culex pipiens pallens and Aedes aegypti and Ochlerotatus togoi.	We investigated the toxicity of (-)-asarinin, α-asarone, methyleugenol, pellitorine, and pentadecane identified in Asarum heterotropoides root to third instar larvae from insecticide-susceptible Culex pipiens pallens (KS-CP strain), Aedes aegypti, and Ochlerotatus togoi as well as field-collected C. p. pallens (DJ-CP colony), identified by polymerase chain reaction. Results were compared with those of two conventional mosquito larvicides: fenthion and temephos. Pellitorine (LC50, 2.08, 2.33, and 2.38 ppm) was 5.5, 10.8, and 25.6 times, 4.5, 11.6, and 24.7 times, and 6.9, 11.1, and 24.6 times more toxic than (-)-asarinin, α-asarone, and methyleugenol against susceptible C. p. pallens, A. aegypti, and O. togoi larvae, respectively. Pentadecane was least toxic. Overall, all the compounds were less toxic than either fenthion or temephos. However, these compounds did not differ in toxicity against larvae from the two Culex strains, even though the DJ-CP larvae exhibited high levels of resistance to fenthion (resistance ratio (RR), 1179), chlorpyrifos (RR, 1174), fenitrothion (RR, 428), deltamethrin (RR, 316), chlorfenapyr (RR, 225), and α-cypermethrin (RR, 94). This finding indicates that the isolated compounds and the pyrethroid, organophosphorus, and pyrrole insecticides do not share a common mode of action or elicit cross-resistance. A. heterotropoides root-derived materials, particularly (-)-asarinin and pellitorine, merit further study as potential mosquito larvicides for the control of insecticide-resistant mosquito populations in light of global efforts to reduce the level of highly toxic synthetic insecticides in the aquatic environment.	1	pesticide
20809969	New protective battle-dress impregnated against mosquito vector bites.	BACKGROUND: Mixing repellent and organophosphate (OP) insecticides to better control pyrethroid resistant mosquito vectors is a promising strategy developed for bed net impregnation. Here, we investigated the opportunity to adapt this strategy to personal protection in the form of impregnated clothes. METHODS: We compared standard permethrin impregnated uniforms with uniforms manually impregnated with the repellent KBR3023 alone and in combination with an organophosphate, Pirimiphos-Methyl (PM). Tests were carried out with Aedes aegypti, the dengue fever vector, at dusk in experimental huts. RESULTS: Results showed that the personal protection provided by repellent KBR3023-impregnated uniforms is equal to permethrin treated uniforms and that KBR3023/PM-impregnated uniforms are more protective. CONCLUSION: The use of repellents alone or combined with OP on clothes could be promising for personal protection of military troops and travellers if residual activity of the repellents is extended and safety is verified.	1	pesticide
20821614	Bioaccumulation kinetics of organic xenobiotic pollutants in the freshwater invertebrate Gammarus pulex modeled with prediction intervals.	Uptake and elimination rate constants, bioaccumulation factors, and elimination times in the freshwater arthropod Gammarus pulex were measured for 14 organic micropollutants covering a wide range of hydrophobicity (imidacloprid, aldicarb, ethylacrylate, 4,6-dinitro-o-cresol, carbofuran, malathion, 4-nitrobenzyl-chloride, 2,4-dichloroaniline, Sea-Nine, 2,4-dichlorophenol, diazinon, 2,4,5-trichlorophenol, 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene, and hexachlorobenzene; all 14C-labeled). The toxicokinetic parameters were determined by least-square fitting of a one-compartment first-order toxicokinetic model, followed by Markov Chain Monte Carlo parameter estimation. The parameter estimation methods used here account for decreasing aqueous concentrations during the exposure phase or increasing aqueous concentrations during the elimination phase of bioaccumulation experiments. It is not necessary to keep exposure concentrations constant or zero during uptake and elimination, respectively. Neither is it required to achieve steady state during the exposure phase; hence, tests can be shorter. Prediction intervals, which take the between-parameter correlation into account, were calculated for bioaccumulation factors and simulations of internal concentrations under variable exposure. The lipid content of Gammarus pulex was 1.3% of wet weight, consisting of 25% phospholipids and 75% triglycerides. Size-dependent bioaccumulation was observed for eight compounds, although the magnitudes of the relationships were too small to be of practical relevance. Elimination times ranged from 0.45 to 20 d, and bioaccumulation factors ranged from 1.7 to 4,449 L/kg. The identified compounds with unexpectedly long elimination times should be given priority in future studies investigating the biotransformation of these compounds.	1	pesticide
20821655	Influence of black carbon and chemical planarity on bioavailability of sediment-associated contaminants.	Black carbon (BC) and chemical properties may play a significant role in defining the bioavailability of hydrophobic organic compounds (HOCs) in sediment. In the current study, bioavailability of four HOCs with differing planarity was determined in sediments amended with two types of BC (soot and charcoal) at different concentrations by matrix solid-phase microextraction (matrix-SPME) and bioaccumulation testing using the freshwater oligochaete Lumbriculus variegatus. Furthermore, the applicability of the matrix-SPME method to bioavailability estimation in BC-amended sediment was tested. The charcoal treatment significantly reduced the bioaccumulation of the planar compounds (3,3',4,4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl and benzo[a]pyrene) in L. variegatus, and the matrix-SPME method showed a similar trend as contaminant bioaccumulation in L. variegatus. Conversely, manipulation of sediment with soot had no effect or slightly increased bioavailability of the planar compounds in both bioaccumulation and matrix-SPME tests. Little if any affect was noted in bioavailability of the nonplanar compounds (2,2',4,4',5,5'-hexachlorobiphenyl and permethrin) with the soot and charcoal amendments. Results showed that the role of BC in defining bioavailability of HOCs depends not only on the type and concentrations of BC present, but also the planarity of the HOCs.	1	pesticide
20824685	Biotype and insecticide resistance status of the whitefly Bemisia tabaci from China.	BACKGROUND: Resistance to numerous insecticide classes in Bemisia tabaci Gennadius has impaired field control efficacy in south-eastern China. The biotype and resistance status of B. tabaci collected from these areas was investigated. RESULTS: Two different biotypes of B. tabaci (B-biotype and Q-biotype) were detected in south-eastern China, and the samples collected from geographical regions showed a prevalence of the Q-biotype and the coexistence of B- and Q-biotypes in some regions. Moderate to high levels of resistance to two neonicotinoids were established in both biotypes (28-1900-fold to imidacloprid, 29-1200-fold to thiamethoxam). Medium to high levels of resistance to alpha-cypermethrin (22-610-fold) were also detected in both biotypes. Four out of 12 populations had low to medium levels of resistance to fipronil (10-25-fold). Four out of 12 populations showed low levels of resistance to spinosad (5.7-6.4-fold). All populations tested were susceptible to abamectin. CONCLUSION: The Q-biotype B. tabaci is supplanting the B-biotype which used to be ubiquitous in China. Field populations of both B- and Q-biotypes of B. tabaci have developed high levels of resistance to imidacloprid and thiamethoxam. Abamectin is the most effective insecticide against adult B. tabaci from all populations.	1	pesticide
20826138	Presence and functional role of the rapidly activating delayed rectifier K(+) current in left and right atria of adult mice.	Repolarization of cardiac action potentials is regulated by several types of K(+) currents. The present study examined the presence and functional significance of rapid delayed rectifier (I(Kr)) in left and right atrial myocytes of mouse heart, using whole-cell patch-clamp method. The functional role of ultrarapid delayed rectifier (I(Kur)) in the repolarization was also examined by blocking with 4-aminopyridine (50 μM). The presence of I(Kr) was detected in left and right atrial myocytes as an E-4031 (5 μM)-sensitive current that exhibited relatively rapid activation during depolarization and half activation voltage of -17.5 and -17.4 mV for left and right atrial myocytes, respectively. The current density of I(Kr) was similar between left and right atria. The prolongation of action potential measured at 50% repolarization evoked by 4-aminopyridine was significantly larger in left than in right atrium, which appears to be consistent with the larger amplitude of I(Kur) in left atrium. On the other hand, the prolongation of action potential measured at 90% repolarization caused by E-4031 was significantly larger in right than in left atrium. The longer action potential of right atrium, which may result at least partly from smaller amplitude of I(Kur), is likely to enhance the functional significance of I(Kr) in repolarization process of right atrium, despite of similar magnitude of I(Kr) in left and right atria. Our data thus identifies I(Kr) in mouse atria and indicates the presence of functional interaction between I(Kr) and I(Kur) that potentially contributes to repolarization heterogeneity in left and right atria of mouse heart.	1	pesticide
20826540	Hepatic response to oxidative injury in long-lived Ames dwarf mice.	Multiple stress resistance pathways were evaluated in the liver of Ames dwarf mice before and after exposure to the oxidative toxin diquat, seeking clues to the exceptional longevity conferred by this mutation. Before diquat treatment, Ames dwarf mice, compared with nonmutant littermate controls, had 2- to 6-fold higher levels of expression of mRNAs for immediate early genes and 2- to 5-fold higher levels of mRNAs for genes dependent on the transcription factor Nrf2. Diquat led to a 2-fold increase in phosphorylation of the stress kinase ERK in control (but not Ames dwarf) mice and to a 50% increase in phosphorylation of the kinase JNK2 in Ames dwarf (but not control) mice. Diquat induction of Nrf2 protein was higher in dwarf mice than in controls. Of 6 Nrf2-responsive genes evaluated, 4 (HMOX, NQO-1, MT-1, and MT-2) remained 2- to 10-fold lower in control than in dwarf liver after diquat, and the other 2 (GCLM and TXNRD) reached levels already seen in dwarf liver at baseline. Thus, livers of Ames dwarf mice differ systematically from controls in multiple stress resistance pathways before and after exposure to diquat, suggesting mechanisms for stress resistance and extended longevity in Ames dwarf mice.	1	pesticide
20828821	Detection of photosynthetic herbicides: algal growth inhibition test vs. electrochemical photosystem II biosensor.	We compared a novel PSII-biosensor assay with a standard algal growth inhibition test for detection of photosynthetic herbicides--diuron, atrazine and isoproturon in liquid samples. To evaluate the convenience and sensitivity, values of the parameters EC50 and LOD and the duration of assays were compared. The biosensor assay was made with an electrochemical biosensor toxicity analyser with immobilised Photosystem II (PSII) complex. Using the PSII-biosensor assay, higher sensitivity (LOD) to herbicides (10(-8)-10(-9)M) was achieved as compared to standard algal growth inhibition tests (about 10(-7)M). The results of both assays showed a good correlation as concerns their EC50 values while the interval of detectable concentrations is about twice wider for PSII-biosensor. A proposed measurement protocol includes the reference standard of phytotoxicity (RSP). The main advantage of the PSII-biosensor assay is that it can be completed in about 1h and is by 1-2 orders more sensitive than standard algal growth inhibition test, which takes 72 h.	1	pesticide
20832939	Rapid and simple low density miniaturized homogeneous liquid-liquid extraction and gas chromatography/mass spectrometric determination of pesticide residues in sediment.	A simple, rapid and environmentally friendly analytical methodology is developed for extraction of pesticides (diazinon, chlorpyrifos and trifluralin) from sediment samples based on a technique called low density miniaturized homogenous liquid-liquid extraction (LDMHLLE) prior gas chromatography mass spectrometry determination. The method based on homogeneous liquid-liquid extraction with methanol containing n-hexane as a solvent of lower density than water (n-hexane). After addition of water, n-hexane solvent immediately forms a distinct water immiscible phase at the top of the vial, which can be easily separated and injected to the GC/MS instrument for quantification. Acquisition was performed in the selected ion monitoring mode. The limits of detection were estimated for the individual pesticides as 3S(b) (three times of the standard deviation of baseline) of the measured chromatogram for pesticides. The proposed method is very fast, simple, and sensitive without any need for stirring and centrifugation and applied to real sediment samples, successfully.	1	pesticide
20836062	Use of vegetated agricultural drainage ditches to decrease toxicity of irrigation runoff from tomato and alfalfa fields in California, USA.	The current study investigated the potential of vegetated drainage ditches for mitigating the impact of agricultural irrigation runoff on downstream aquatic ecosystems. Water column toxicity to larval fathead minnow (Pimephales promelas),and the amphipod Hyalella azteca was measured for 12 h or less at the ditch inflow and outflow, using custom-built in situ exposure systems. In addition, water and sediment samples were subject to standard toxicity tests with Ceriodaphnia dubia and H. azteca, respectively. No acute toxicity to larval fathead minnow was observed; however, runoff was highly toxic to invertebrates. Passage through a 389- to 402-m section of vegetated ditch had a mitigating effect and reduced toxicity to some degree. However, runoff from an alfalfa field treated with chlorpyrifos remained highly toxic to both invertebrate species, and runoff from a tomato field treated with permethrin remained highly toxic to H. azteca after passage through the ditch. Predicted toxic units calculated from insecticide concentrations in runoff and 96-h median lethal concentration (LC50) values generally agreed with C. dubia toxicity measured in the laboratory but significantly underestimated in situ toxicity to H. azteca. Sediments collected near the ditch outflow were toxic to H. azteca. Results from the current study demonstrate that experimental vegetated ditches were unable to eliminate the risk of irrigation runoff to aquatic ecosystems. In addition, protective measures based on chemical concentrations or laboratory toxicity tests with C. dubia do not ensure adequate protection of aquatic ecosystems from pyrethroid-associated toxicity.	1	pesticide
20845184	Metolachlor and chlorothalonil dissipation in gypsum-amended soil.	This work focused on the interactive effects of the fungicide chlorothalonil (2,3,4,6-tetrachloro-1,3-benzendicarbonitrile) and gypsum on the persistence of the soil-residual herbicide metolachlor (2-chloro-N-(6-ethyl-o-tolyl)-N-[(1RS)-2-methoxy-1-methylethyl]acetamide). Gypsum application was included due to its widespread use on peanut (Arachis hypogaea). Both agricultural grade gypsum and reagent CaSO(4)-2H(2)O were tested. A laboratory soil incubation was conducted to evaluate interactive effects. Results indicated 1.5X greater metolachlor half-life (DT(50)) in soil amended with chlorothalonil (37 d) as compared to control soil (25 d). The two gypsum sources alone increased metolachlor DT(50) to about 32 d and with the combination of chlorothalonil and gypsum, DT50 was 50 d, 2-fold greater than the control. Chlorothalonil dissipation was rapid (DT(50) < 4d). A possible explanation for metolachlor dissipation kinetics is a build-up of the chlorothalonil intermediate (4-hydroxychlorothalonil) which limited soil microbial activity and depleted glutathione S-transferase (GST) from chlorothalonil detoxification. Further information related to gypsum impacts is needed. Results confirm previous reports of chlorothalonil impeding metolachlor dissipation and showed the gypsum application extended persistence even longer. Farming practices, such as reducing metolachlor application rates, may need to be adjusted for peanut cropping systems where chlorothalonil and gypsum are used.	1	pesticide
20849331	Acute illnesses associated with exposure to fipronil--surveillance data from 11 states in the United States, 2001-2007.	INTRODUCTION: Fipronil is a broad-spectrum phenylpyrazole insecticide widely used to control residential pests and is also commonly used for flea and tick treatment on pets. It is a relatively new insecticide and few human toxicity data exist on fipronil. OBJECTIVE: This paper describes the magnitude and characteristics of acute illnesses associated with fipronil exposure. METHODS: Illness cases associated with exposure to fipronil-containing products from 2001 to 2007 were identified from the Sentinel Event Notification System for Occupational Risks (SENSOR)-Pesticides Program and the California Department of Pesticide Regulation. RESULTS: A total of 103 cases were identified in 11 states. Annual case counts increased from 5 in 2001 to 30 in 2007. Of the cases, 55% were female, the median age was 37 years, and 11% were <15 years old. The majority (76%) had exposure in a private residence, 37% involved the use of pet-care products, and 26% had work-related exposures. Most cases (89%) had mild, temporary health effects. Neurological symptoms (50%) such as headache, dizziness, and paresthesia were the most common, followed by ocular (44%), gastrointestinal (28%), respiratory (27%), and dermal (21%) symptoms/signs. Exposures usually occurred from inadvertent spray/splash/spill of products or inadequate ventilation of the treated area before re-entry. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that exposure to fipronil can pose a risk for mild, temporary health effects in various body systems. Precautionary actions should be reinforced to prevent fipronil exposure to product users.	1	pesticide
20850525	Chronic atrazine exposure causes disruption of the spontaneous locomotor activity and alters the striatal dopaminergic system of the male Sprague-Dawley rat.	The herbicide atrazine (ATR) is widely used around the world, and is a potential toxicant of the dopaminergic systems. Nigrostriatal and mesolimbic systems are the two major dopaminergic pathways of the central nervous system; they play key roles mediating a wide array of critical motor and cognitive functions. We evaluated the effects of exposing male rats for one year to 10 mg ATR/kg B.W. on these systems using motor and cognitive tasks and measuring monoamine content in the striatum, nucleus accumbens, prefrontal cortex, and hypothalamus. ATR administration resulted in impaired motor coordination and greater spontaneous locomotor activity only after 10 to 12 months of exposure. Chronic exposure to 10 mg ATR decreased striatal dopamine, but had no effect on accumbal, hypothalamic or cortical monoamine content. Chronic ATR exposure caused discrete changes in learning tasks that involve either the striatum or the nucleus accumbens. These results indicate that chronic exposure to ATR preferentially targets the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway, in comparison to the other dopaminergic pathways evaluated in this study, inducing behavioral and neurochemical alterations. In order to unveil the full extent of atrazine's effects on the nervous system, other neurochemical systems should be considered in future studies.	1	pesticide
20853451	An assessment of honeybee colony matrices, Apis mellifera (Hymenoptera: Apidae) to monitor pesticide presence in continental France.	The frequency of occurrence and relative concentration of 44 pesticides in apicultural (Apis mellifera) matrices collected from five French locations (24 apiaries) were assessed from 2002 to 2005. The number and nature of the pesticides investigated varied with the matrices examined-living honeybees, pollen loads, honey, and beeswax. Pollen loads and beeswax had the highest frequency of pesticide occurrence among the apiary matrices examined in the present study, whereas honey samples had the lowest. The imidacloprid group and the fipronil group were detected in sufficient amounts in all matrices to allow statistical comparisons. Some seasonal variation was shown when residues were identified in pollen loads. Given the results (highest frequency of presence) and practical aspects (easy to collect; matrix with no turnover, unlike with bees that are naturally renewed), pollen loads were the best matrix for assessing the presence of pesticide residues in the environment in our given conditions.	1	pesticide
20883798	Altered hematological and immunological parameters in silver catfish (Rhamdia quelen) following short term exposure to sublethal concentration of glyphosate.	Using agrichemicals to control unwanted species has become a necessary and common worldwide practice to improve crop production. Although most currently used agrichemicals are considered relatively safe, continuous usage contributes for soil and water contamination and collateral toxic effects on aquatic species. Few studies correlated the presence of agrichemicals on fish blood cells and natural immune system. Thus, in this study, silver catfish (Rhamdia quelen) were exposed to sublethal concentrations (10% of the LC(50-96 h)) of a glyphosate based herbicide and hematological and natural immune system parameters were evaluated. Silver catfish fingerlings exposed to glyphosate for 96 h had a significant reduction on blood erythrocytes, thrombocytes, lymphocytes and total leukocytes in contrast to a significant increase in the number of immature circulating cells. The effect of glyphosate on natural immune system was evaluated after 24h or 10 days exposure by measuring the phagocytic index of coelomic cells, and lysozyme, total peroxidase, bacteria agglutination, bactericidal activity and natural complement hemolytic activity in the serum of fingerlings. A significant reduction on phagocytic index, serum bacteria agglutination and total peroxidase was observed only after 24h exposure to glyphosate. In contrast, fingerlings exposed to glyphosate for 10 days had a significant lower serum bacteria agglutination and lysozyme activity. Glyphosate had no effect on serum bactericidal and complement natural hemolytic activity after 24h or 10 days exposure. Nonetheless, the information obtained in this study indicates that glyphosate contaminated water contributes to alter blood cells parameters and to reduce the activity of natural immune components important to mediate fish resistance to infecting microorganisms.	1	pesticide
20922999	Eupatorium capillifolium essential oil: chemical composition, antifungal activity, and insecticidal activity.	Natural plant extracts often contain compounds that are useful in pest management applications. The essential oil of Eupatorium capillifolium (dog-fennel) was investigated for antifungal and insecticidal activities. Essential oil obtained by hydrodistillation of aerial parts was analyzed by gas chromatography (GC) and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS). The major components were determined to be thymol methyl ether (=methyl thymol) (36.3%), 2,5-dimethoxy-p-cymene (20.8%) and myrcene (15.7%). Antifungal activity of the essential oil was weak against the plant pathogens Colletotrichum acutatum, C. fragariae, and C. gloeosporioides in direct bioautography assay. The E. capillifolium oil showed promising repellent activity against the yellow fever mosquito Aedes aegypti, whereas the oil exhibited moderate activity against the mosquito's first instar larvae in a high throughput bioassay. Topical applications of the oil showed no activity against the blood-feeding female adults of A. aegypti. Eupatorium capillifolium essential oil showed a linear dose response between adult lace bug (Stephanitis pyrioides) mortality and increasing oil concentration in an adulticidal activity bioassay. The dog-fennel oil was more potent than the conventional insecticide malathion. In conclusion, these combined results showed Eupatorium capillifolium oil is a promising novel source of a biological insecticide with multiple modes of action.	1	pesticide
20924608	Prevalence, associated determinants, and in vivo chemotherapeutic control of hard ticks (Acari: Ixodidae) infesting domestic goats (Capra hircus) of lower Punjab, Pakistan.	A total of 800 goats of various breeds, age, and sex were randomly selected from Muzaffargarh (M. garh) and Layyah districts of lower Punjab, Pakistan. The selected goats were visited twice a month to collect information about determinants influencing goat tick infestation prevalence. For acaricidal efficacy, 360 tick-infested adult goats were subjected to an acaricidal treatment and post-treatment quantitative assessment of tick burden. Quantification of adult tick detachment 24 h post-treatment and the duration of treatment efficacy were calculated. Overall prevalence of goat tick infestation in both study districts was 60.1% (481/800). The prevalence was higher in district M. garh than in district Layyah. Tehsil-wise prevalence in district Layyah was highest in tehsil Layyah followed in order by Chaubara and Karor. In district M. garh, highest prevalence was found in tehsil M. garh followed by Kot Addu, Alipur, and Jatoi. Hyalomma a. anatolicum (75.9%; 365/481) and Rhipicephalus sanguineus (24.1%; 116/481) were the predominant species in both the districts. The highest month-wise prevalence was 56.9% and 62.7% in Layyah and M. garh districts, respectively, during July 2008, and the minimum (0%) prevalence was reported in November and December, respectively. Regarding host determinants, female goats were more heavily infested (72.8%) than males (47.5%), and younger animals were (63.5%) more burdened than older ones (56.7%). Teddy goats were the most susceptible breeds followed in order by Beetal, cross-bred, Nachi, and Dera Din Pannah. The preferred sites of attachment were inside and outside of the ear. Both the ivermectin (IVM)- and cypermethrin (CYM)-treated groups resulted in significantly lower (P < 0.05) tick counts relative to controls on all post-treatment counting days. The lowest tick burden in the IVM-treated group was significantly higher (P < 0.05) as compared to the CYM-treated group, the latter being close to zero. Hence, the in vivo efficacy trials of injectable IVM vs CYM pour-on revealed better results for the latter. These observations provided the first insights into what determinants impact goat tick infestation, and laid a foundation for planning of future control programs in the lower Punjab, Pakistan.	1	pesticide
20939379	Evaluation of rodent bait containing imidacloprid for the control of fleas on commensal rodents in a plague-endemic region of northwest Uganda.	In recent decades, the majority of human plague cases (caused by Yersinia pestis) have been reported from Africa. In an effort to reduce the risk of the disease in this area, we evaluated the efficacy of a host-targeted rodent bait containing the insecticide imidacloprid for controlling fleas on house-dwelling commensal rodents in a plague-endemic region of northwestern Uganda. Results demonstrated that the use of a palatable, rodent-targeted, wax-based bait cube was effective at reducing the prevalence of fleas on commensal rodents and flea burdens on these animals at day 7 postbait exposure, but lacked significant residual activity, allowing flea populations to rebound in the absence of additional bait applications. Our results indicate the use of a palatable host-targeted bait block containing imidacloprid was an effective technique for quickly reducing flea numbers on rodents in northwest Uganda and, thus, could be useful for lowering the potential risk of human flea bite exposures during plague outbreaks if applied continuously during the period of risk.	1	pesticide
20971860	Genetic characterization of plasmid-associated benzalkonium chloride resistance determinants in a Listeria monocytogenes strain from the 1998-1999 outbreak.	Quaternary ammonium compounds such as benzalkonium chloride (BC) are widely used as disinfectants in both food processing and medical environments. BC-resistant strains of Listeria monocytogenes have been implicated in multistate outbreaks of listeriosis and have been frequently isolated from food processing plants. However, the genetic basis for BC resistance in L. monocytogenes remains poorly understood. In this study, we have characterized a plasmid (pLM80)-associated BC resistance cassette in L. monocytogenes H7550, a strain implicated in the 1998-1999 multistate outbreak involving contaminated hot dogs. The BC resistance cassette (bcrABC) restored resistance to BC (MIC, 40 μg/ml) in a plasmid-cured derivative of H7550. All three genes of the cassette were essential for imparting BC resistance. The transcription of H7550 BC resistance genes was increased under sublethal (10 μg/ml) BC exposure and was higher at reduced temperatures (4, 8, or 25°C) than at 37°C. The level of transcription was higher at 10 μg/ml than at 20 or 40 μg/ml. In silico analysis suggested that the BC resistance cassette was harbored by an IS1216 composite transposon along with other genes whose functions are yet to be determined. The findings from this study will further our understanding of the adaptations of this organism to disinfectants such as BC and may contribute to the elucidation of possible BC resistance dissemination in L. monocytogenes.	1	pesticide
21040944	The extractability and mineralisation of cypermethrin aged in four UK soils.	Cypermethrin is a widely used insecticide that has caused concern due to its toxicity in the aquatic environment. As with all land applied pesticides, the most significant source of water pollution is from the soil, either due to leaching or washoff. The behaviour of cypermethrin in the soil controls the likelihood of future pollution incidents, with two of the most significant processes being the formation of bound residues and microbial degradation. The formation of bound residues and mineralisation was measured in four organically managed soils from the UK. The formation of bound residues was measured using three different extraction solutions, 0.01 M CaCl₂, 0.05 M HPCD and acetonitrile. Biodegradation was assessed by measurement of mineralisation of cypermethrin to CO₂. The formation of bound residues varied according to extraction method, soil type and length of ageing. In two of the four soils studied, acetonitrile extractability decreased from 100% initially to 12-14% following 100 d ageing. The extent of mineralisation increased after 10-21 d ageing, reaching 33% of remaining activity in one soil, however following 100 d ageing the extent of mineralisation was significantly reduced in three out of the four soils. As with the formation of bound residues, mineralisation was impacted by soil type and length of ageing.	1	pesticide
21042468	Evaluation of Testicular Toxicity Following Short-term Exposure to Cypermethrin in Albino Mice.	The present study was undertaken to assess the testicular toxicity following short-term exposure to cypermethrin (α-CP) in albino mice. Cypermethrin was dissolved in arachis oil and administered to two groups of mice (n = 12/group) orally at the dose rate of 250 mg/kg body weight, once a day for 28 days. Fifty percent of the animals in both the groups were sacrificed on day 14 and the remaining on day 28. Plasma samples were subjected to radioimmunoassay to determine testosterone levels. The testes were collected to determine the cholesterol levels and the activity of transaminases (AST and ALT) or epididymal alkaline phosphatase (ALP). Histological study of testicular tissue was also undertaken to examine the α-CP-induced ultrastructural changes using transmission electron microscopy (TEM). α-CP significantly (P<0.05) increased the activities of testicular AST (1.36±0.12 vs. 1.19±0.10), ALT(1.78±0.11 vs. 1.36±0.09), and significantly (P<0.05) decreased the testosterone levels (0.86±0.24 vs. 1.72±0.18). Testicular cholesterol levels were elevated in treated animals as compared to control (1.81±0.16 vs. 1.42±0.08). Epididymal alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity was also decreased significantly (P<0.05) in treated animals (1.10±0.20 vs. 1.64±0.1). Histological studies on day 28 revealed rupture of spermatogonic cell membrane, shrinkage in the nucleus, stages of apoptosis, condensation of chromatin, and decreased cytoplasmic organelles. The study suggested that short-term exposure to α-CP in albino mice induced toxicopathological lesions in testicular tissue leading to decreased plasma testosterone levels.	1	pesticide
21093112	Chiral 1,5-disubstituted 1,3,5-hexahydrotriazine-2-N-nitroimine analogues as novel potent neonicotinoids: Synthesis, insecticidal evaluation and molecular docking studies.	A new series of 1,5-disubstituted 1,3,5-hexahydrotriazine-2-N-nitroimines (4a-4x) were designed and synthesized as novel chiral neonicotinoid analogues. The single-crystal structure of 4n was further determined by X-ray diffraction, and its S configuration was confirmed. Preliminary bioassay showed that compound 4e, 4k, 4u, 4v exhibited excellent insecticidal activities at 100 mg/L, while 4k had >90% mortality at 10 mg/L, which suggested it could be used as a lead for future development. Modeling the inhibitor-nAChR complexes by molecular docking studies explained the structure-activity relationships observed in vitro, and revealed an intriguing molecular binding mode at the active site of nAChR, which raised the possibility that these analogues may arbitrate their insecticidal activity through a mechanism other than imidacloprid.	1	pesticide
21107526	Effect of aquatic vegetation on the persistence of cypermethrin toxicity in water.	Soybean production in Argentina comprises 15 million ha. Cypermethrin is the main insecticide applied amounting 150 g of active ingredient per hectare, thus representing roughly 2.3 thousand tons yearly released to the environment. Toxicity pulses have been observed in small streams draining agricultural basins, most of them sustaining macrophyte growth. Cypermethrin concentrations and its toxicity to the amphipod Hyalella curvispina was compared following an addition to laboratory mesocosms with and without a vegetation cover of the floating macrophyte Lemna sp. Both concentrations and toxicity decreased faster in the treatments covered with Lemna. Fast adsorption of the hydrophobic pesticide to the roots and fronds of Lemna was suggested.	1	pesticide
21117417	Effect of soil properties on the persistence of carbamate pesticides.	Persistence of six carbamate pesticides (oxamyl, I; carbaryl, II; phorate, III; phosphomidon, IV; carbofuran, V and methomyl, VI) on ten different soils of Aligarh district was investigated in the laboratory incubated conditions under different moisture levels; temperature; pesticide concentration; acidic, neutral and alkaline pH; FYM (farm yield manure) and nitrogen concentration. The process of degradation followed first order kinetics. The rate of degradation of all the six carbamate pesticides in studied soils was found to increase with rise in temperature, moisture content, amount of FYM or N and decrease with increasing pesticidal concentration. The degradation was more rapid in alkaline medium than neutral or acidic medium. The values of activation energies (Ea) showed that the degradation of pesticides in soils is due to microbial activity and probably enzymatic. The degradation of pesticides was in the order I > VI > V > IV > II > III. The degradation of pesticides in different soils was in the order S1 > S2 > S3 > S4 > S5 > S6 > S7 > S8, > S9 > S10.	1	pesticide
21121649	Metabolism and persistence of atrazine in several field soils with different atrazine application histories.	To assess the potential occurrence of accelerated herbicide degradation in soils, the mineralization and persistence of (14)C-labeled and nonlabeled atrazine was evaluated over 3 months in two soils from Belgium (BS, atrazine-treated 1973-2008; BC, nontreated) and two soils from Germany (CK, atrazine-treated 1986-1989; CM, nontreated). Prior to the experiment, accelerated solvent extraction of bulk field soils revealed atrazine (8.3 and 15.2 μg kg(-1)) in BS and CK soils and a number of metabolites directly after field sampling, even in BC and CM soils without previous atrazine treatment, by means of LC-MS/MS analyses. For atrazine degradation studies, all soils were incubated under different moisture conditions (50% maximum soil water-holding capacity (WHC(max))/slurried conditions). At the end of the incubation, the (14)C-atrazine mineralization was high in BS soil (81 and 83%) and also unexpectedly high in BC soil (40 and 81%), at 50% WHC(max) and slurried conditions, respectively. In CK soil, the (14)C-atrazine mineralization was higher (10 and 6%) than in CM soil (4.7 and 2.7%), but was not stimulated by slurried conditions. The results revealed that atrazine application history dramatically influences its degradation and mineralization. For the incubation period, the amount of extractable atrazine, composed of residues from freshly applied atrazine and residues from former field applications, remained significantly greater (statistical significance = 99.5 and 99.95%) for BS and CK soils, respectively, than the amount of extractable atrazine in the bulk field soils. This suggests that (i) mostly freshly applied atrazine is accessible for a complex microbial community, (ii) the applied atrazine is not completely mineralized and remains extractable even in adapted soils, and (iii) the microbial atrazine-mineralizing capacity strongly depends on atrazine application history and appears to be conserved on long time scales after the last application.	1	pesticide
21129432	Foetal and neonatal exposure to chlorpyrifos: biochemical and metabolic alterations in the mouse liver at different developmental stages.	The mechanisms implicated in the age-related toxicity, including its neurobehavioral effects after subtoxic developmental exposure to chlorpyrifos (CPF), a widely used insecticide, have not been fully elucidated yet. With the aim of investigating whether metabolic differences during ontogeny could account for the age-related susceptibility to CPF, we examined the developmental time-course of hepatic metabolizing enzymes and CPF metabolism in a cohort of mice exposed either prenatally (gestational day 15-18) and/or postnatally (postnatal day (PND) 11-14) to CPF at doses which were previously reported to induce neurobehavioural alterations, in the absence of brain acetyl-cholinesterase inhibition. Testosterone hydroxylase activity, CPF ex vivo biotransformation, glutathione content, as well as aromatase activity were determined in the liver of control and treated male and female mice at PND0, 9, 15 and 150. In control mice most Cyp activities were detectable and progressively increased up to PND15. In newborn control mice CPF bioactivation was much higher than the Cyp-catalysed detoxication, negligible at birth, indicating a possible increased susceptibility to CPF-induced effects in newborn mice. Detoxication rapidly increased with age, so that Cyp-related metabolic features cannot explain the higher susceptibility of juvenile mice. The observed age-dependent metabolic picture was partially altered by CPF prenatal treatment. Following in utero exposure CPF detoxifying capability was enhanced at birth and reduced at PND15, when CPF-oxon formation was slightly increased. No effects were evident at adulthood. Prenatal dosing was more effective in causing metabolic alterations than CPF postnatal treatment; no potentiation was observed in mice experiencing pre- plus post-natal CPF administration. Both in utero and postnatal CPF exposure decreased aromatase activity by 50% at PND9 and 15; this effect together with the presence of higher levels of the sex-specific Cyp2c activity at adulthood in male mice may suggest the occurrence of long-lasting impairment in the expression of hepatic Cyps under hormonal regulation. Altogether, the alterations in CPF Cyp-mediated biotransformation caused by perinatal CPF exposure seem not sufficient per se to explain the reported vulnerability of developing central nervous system to this insecticide, which can be due also to the parent compound itself or to the activation of different toxicological pathways. The hypothesis that observed effects on aromatase and sex-specific Cyp activity may be associated with a possible interference with the long-term alterations in sex-specific behavioural pattern deserves further investigation.	1	pesticide
21137390	[Adsorption characteristics and mechanism of atrazine on three types of humic acid].	This study mainly researched the adsorption properties and adsorption mechanism of atrazine on three different types of humic acids: the black soil humic acid, the chestnut soil humic acid and the humic acid purchased. After the extraction of humic acid from the two different types of soil, the black soil and chestnut soil, adsorption experiments were carried out using the batch equilibrium techniques. Then FTIR and ESR spectral analysis methods were employed to explain the functional mechanism between atrazine and humic acid. The results showed that the sorption of humic acid on atazine was very fast at the beginning, then went to slower and finally came to equilibrium. The relationship between the amount of atrazine sorbed by the three humic acids and reaction time all fitted logarithmic and hyperbolic equations well. Adsorption isotherms of atrazine on the three humic acids all are L-type and in accordance with the linear model and the Freundlich model. Because of the different structure, there is significant difference between the adsorption isotherm of atrazine on purchased humic acid and extract humic acid. The interactions between humic acid and atrazine are mostly weak forces, such as the H-bond, proton transfer, charge transfer, van der Waals force and so on. In addition, ESR analysis proved that charge transfer exists between humic acid and atrazine during the process of adsorption.	1	pesticide
21162147	Effect of reduced risk pesticides on greenhouse vegetable arthropod biological control agents.	BACKGROUND: Arthropod biological control agents (BCAs) are commonly released for greenhouse vegetable insect pest management. Nevertheless, chemicals remain a necessary control tactic for certain insect pests and diseases and they can have negative impacts on BCAs. The compatibility of some formulated reduced risk insecticides (abamectin, metaflumizone and chlorantraniliprole) and fungicides (myclobutanil, potassium bicarbonate and cyprodinil + fludioxonil) used, or with promise for use, in Canadian greenhouses with Orius insidiosus (Say), Amblyseius swirskii (Athias-Henriot) and Eretmocerus eremicus (Rose & Zolnerovich) was determined through laboratory and greenhouse bioassays. RESULTS: Overall, the insecticides and fungicides were harmless as residues to adult BCAs. However, abamectin was slightly to moderately harmful to O. insidiosus and A. swirskii in laboratory bioassays, whereas metaflumizone was slightly harmful to E. eremicus. CONCLUSIONS: In general, these products appear safe to use prior to establishment/release of these adult BCAs.	1	pesticide
21169608	Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi alter plant allometry and biomass-density relationships.	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Plant biomass-density relationships during self-thinning are determined mainly by allometry. Both allometry and biomass-density relationship have been shown to vary with abiotic conditions, but the effects of biotic interactions have not been investigated. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) can promote plant growth and affect plant form. Here experiments were carried out to test whether AMF affect plant allometry and the self-thinning trajectory. METHODS: Two experiments were conducted on Medicago sativa L., a leguminous species known to be highly dependent on mycorrhiza. Two mycorrhizal levels were obtained by applying benomyl (low AMF) or not (high AMF). Experiment 1 investigated the effects of AMF on plant growth in the absence of competition. Experiment 2 was a factorial design with two mycorrhizal levels and two plant densities (6000 and 17 500 seeds m(-2)). Shoot biomass, root biomass and canopy radius were measured 30, 60, 90 and 120 d after sowing. The allometric relationships among these aspects of size were estimated by standardized major axis regression on log-transformed data. KEY RESULTS: Shoot biomass in the absence of competition was lower under low AMF treatment. In self-thinning populations, the slope of the log (mean shoot biomass) vs. log density relationship was significantly steeper for the high AMF treatment (slope = -1·480) than for the low AMF treatment (-1·133). The canopy radius-biomass allometric exponents were not significantly affected by AMF level, but the root-shoot allometric exponent was higher in the low AMF treatment. With a high level of AMF, the biomass-density exponent can be predicted from the above-ground allometric model of self-thinning, while this was not the case when AMF were reduced by fungicide. CONCLUSIONS: AMF affected the importance of below-ground relative to above-ground interactions and changed root vs. shoot allocation. This changed allometric allocation of biomass and altered the self-thinning trajectory.	1	pesticide
21192834	Pyrethroid resistance in southern African Anopheles funestus extends to Likoma Island in Lake Malawi.	BACKGROUND: A mosquito survey was carried out on the island of Likoma in Lake Malawi with a view to collecting baseline data to determine the feasibility of implementing an integrated malaria vector control programme. No vector control interventions are currently being applied on the island apart from the sporadic use of treated and untreated bed nets. RESULTS: Large numbers of Anopheles funestus were found resting inside houses. WHO susceptibility tests were carried out on wild caught females and 1-5 day old F-1 female progeny. Wild caught females were tested on deltamethrin (77.8% mortality) and bendiocarb (56.4% mortality). Female progeny were tested on deltamethrin (41.4% mortality), permethrin (40.4%), bendiocarb (52.5%), propoxur (7.4%), malathion, fenitrothion, DDT, dieldrin (all 100%) and pirimiphos-methyl (98.9%). The malaria parasite rate was 4.9%. A small number of Anopheles arabiensis were also collected. CONCLUSION: This locality is 1,500 km north of the currently known distribution of pyrethroid resistant An. funestus in southern Africa. The susceptibility results mirror those found in southern Mozambique and South African populations, but are markedly different to An. funestus populations in Uganda, indicating that the Malawi resistance has spread from the south.	1	pesticide
21216345	Regulation and dysregulation of vitellogenin mRNA accumulation in daphnids (Daphnia magna).	The induction of vitellogenin in oviparous vertebrates has become the gold standard biomarker of exposure to estrogenic chemicals in the environment. This biomarker of estrogen exposure also has been used in arthropods, however, little is known of the factors that regulate the expression of vitellogenin in these organisms. We investigated changes in accumulation of mRNA products of the vitellogenin gene Vtg2 in daphnids (Daphnia magna) exposed to a diverse array of chemicals. We further evaluated the involvement of hormonal factors in the regulation of vitellogenin expression that may be targets of xenobiotic chemicals. Expression of the Vtg2 gene was highly responsive to exposure to various chemicals with an expression range spanning approximately four orders of magnitude. Chemicals causing the greatest induction were piperonyl butoxide, chlordane, 4-nonylphenol, cadmium, and chloroform. Among these, only 4-nonylphenol is recognized to be estrogenic. Exposure to several chemicals also suppressed Vtg2 mRNA levels, as much as 100-fold. Suppressive chemicals included cyproterone acetate, acetone, triclosan, and atrazine. Exposure to the estrogens diethylstilbestrol and bisphenol A had little effect on vitellogenin mRNA levels further substantiating that these genes are not induced by estrogen exposure. Exposure to the potent ecdysteroids 20-hydroxyecdysone and ponasterone A revealed that Vtg2 was subject to strong suppressive control by these hormones. Vtg2 mRNA levels were not significantly affected from exposure to several juvenoid hormones. Results indicate that ecdysteroids are suppressors of vitellogenin gene expression and that vitellogenin mRNA levels can be elevated or suppressed in daphnids by xenobiotics that elicit antiecdysteroidal or ecdysteroidal activity, respectively. Importantly, daphnid Vtg2 is not elevated in response to estrogenic activity.	1	pesticide
21224175	Biomarkers of chlorpyrifos exposure and effect in Egyptian cotton field workers.	BACKGROUND: Chlorpyrifos (CPF), a widely used organophosphorus pesticide (OP), is metabolized to CPF-oxon, a potent cholinesterase (ChE) inhibitor, and trichloro-2-pyridinol (TCPy). Urinary TCPy is often used as a biomarker for CPF exposure, whereas blood ChE activity is considered an indicator of CPF toxicity. However, whether these biomarkers are dose related has not been studied extensively in populations with repeated daily OP exposures. OBJECTIVE: We sought to determine the relationship between blood ChE and urinary TCPy during repeated occupational exposures to CPF. METHODS: Daily urine samples and weekly blood samples were collected from pesticide workers (n=38) in Menoufia Governorate, Egypt, before, during, and after 9-17 consecutive days of CPF application to cotton fields. We compared blood butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activities with the respective urinary TCPy concentrations in each worker. RESULTS: Average TCPy levels during the middle of a 1- to 2-week CPF application period were significantly higher in pesticide applicators (6,437 µg/g creatinine) than in technicians (184 µg/g) and engineers (157 µg/g), both of whom are involved in supervising the application process. We observed a statistically significant inverse correlation between urinary TCPy and blood BuChE and AChE activities. The no-effect level (or inflection point) of the exposure-effect relationships has an average urinary TCPy level of 114 µg/g creatinine for BuChE and 3,161 µg/g creatinine for AChE. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate a dose-effect relationship between urinary TCPy and both plasma BuChE and red blood cell AChE in humans exposed occupationally to CPF. These findings will contribute to future risk assessment efforts for CPF exposure.	1	pesticide
21251739	Conducting model ecosystem studies in tropical climate zones: lessons learned from Thailand and way forward.	Little research has been done so far into the environmental fate and side effects of pesticides in the tropics. In addition, those studies conducted in tropical regions have focused almost exclusively on single species laboratory tests. Hence, fate and effects of pesticides on higher-tier levels have barely been studied under tropical conditions. To address this lack of knowledge, four outdoor aquatic model ecosystem experiments using two different test systems were conducted in Thailand evaluating the insecticide chlorpyrifos, the herbicide linuron and the fungicide carbendazim. Results of these experiments and comparisons of recorded fate and effects with temperate studies have been published previously. The present paper discusses the pros and cons of the methodologies applied and provides indications for i) possible improvements; ii) important aspects that should be considered when performing model ecosystem experiments in the tropics; iii) future research.	1	pesticide
21253838	Application of physiologically based modelling and transcriptomics to probe the systems toxicology of aldicarb for Caenorhabditis elegans (Maupas 1900).	The toxicity of aldicarb on movement, life cycle, population growth rate and resource allocation, and the gene expression changes underpinning these effects, were investigated for Caenorhabditis elegans. A clear effect of aldicarb on nematode movement was found suggesting that this pesticide acts as a neurotoxicant. Aldicarb also had an effect on life cycle traits including low concentration life-span extension; high concentration brood size reduction and a high concentration extension of time to first egg. All life-cycle and growth data were integrated into a biology-based model (DEBtox) to characterise aldicarb effects on life-history traits, resource allocation and population growth rate within a single modelling framework. The DEBtox fits described concentration dependent effects on individual traits and population growth rate and indicated that the most probable mechanism of action of the pesticide was an increase in energy demands for somatic and reproductive tissue maintenance. Transcriptomic profiling indicated that aldicarb was associated with changes in amino acid metabolism, DNA structure, fatty acid metabolism and cytochrome P450 mediated xenobiotic metabolism. The changes in the amino acid and fatty acid pathways suggest an effect of aldicarb on protein integrity; while effects on DNA suggests that aldicarb influence DNA morphology or replication. Both these effects have the potential to incur increased costs for structural maintenance of macromolecules. These effects, coupled to the effect on biotransformation enzymes also seen, represent the materialisation of the maintenance costs indicated by DEBtox modelling.	1	pesticide
21254126	CZE separation of amitrol and triazine herbicides in environmental water samples with acid-assisted on-column preconcentration.	A simple analytical scheme for the detection and quantification of amitrol and triazine herbicides (atrazine, ametryn and atraton) and degradation product (2-hydroxyatrazine) in environmental water samples by CZE is reported. On-column preconcentration of analytes from untreated water samples (mineral, spring, tap and river water) is accomplished by introducing an acid plug (200 mM citrate of pH 2.0) after the sample and then proceeding with the CZE separation, using 100 mM formiate buffer of pH 3.5 as running buffer and 25.0 KV as separation voltage. UV detection at 200 nm provides LODs from 50 to 300 nM in untreated samples and they were lowered tenfold by sample preconcentration by evaporation. Calculated recoveries were typically higher than 90%. Minimal detectable concentration of the electroactive amitrol could be decreased about 20-fold when electrochemical detection was employed by monitoring the amperometric signal at +800 mV using a carbon paste electrode (LOD of 9.6 nM, 0.81 μg/L, versus 170 nM, 14.3 μg/L, using amperometric and UV detection, respectively) in untreated water samples.	1	pesticide
21261912	Atrazine biodegradation in the lab and in the field: enzymatic activities and gene regulation.	Atrazine is an herbicide of the s-triazine family that is used primarily as a nitrogen source by degrading microorganisms. While many catabolic pathways for xenobiotics are subjected to catabolic repression by preferential carbon sources, atrazine utilization is repressed in the presence of preferential nitrogen sources. This phenomenon appears to restrict atrazine elimination in nitrogen-fertilized soils by indigenous organisms or in bioaugmentation approaches. The mechanisms of nitrogen control have been investigated in the model strain Pseudomonas sp. ADP. Expression of atzA, atzB ad atzC, involved in the conversion of atrazine in cyanuric acid, is constitutive. The atzDEF operon, encoding the enzymes responsible for cyanuric acid mineralization, is a target for general nitrogen control. Regulation of atzDEF involves a complex interplay between the global regulatory elements of general nitrogen control and the pathway-specific LysR-type regulator AtzR. In addition, indirect evidence suggests that atrazine transport may also be a target for nitrogen regulation in this strain. The knowledge about regulatory mechanisms may allow the design of rational bioremediation strategies such as biostimulation using carbon sources or the use of mutant strains impaired in the assimilation of nitrogen sources for bioaugmentation.	1	pesticide
21275239	Clinical efficacy and safety in head lice infection by Pediculus humanis capitis De Geer (Anoplura: Pediculidae) of a capillary spray containing a silicon-oil complex.	Head lice are endemic worldwide. Resistance to permethrin and doubts about the safety of pesticides promoted the use of physical therapies (wet-combing, dry-on suffocation). The aim of our study was to test the pediculicidal and ovicidal effects of one application of a silicon-oil complex composed of dimethiconol and castor oil. The study was a prospective cohort of 108 infested patients (11 males, 97 females; 58 children, 50 adults), in Sri-Lanka. Pediculicidal efficacy was evaluated as the percentage of patients free of live lice one hour after the application of the treatment and at day 1 (wet combing). Ovicidal efficacy was calculated as the proportion of subjects without larval stages at days 1 and 7 among subjects followed up all over the study. In normal conditions of use, in this open cohort, a pediculicidal effect of a dimethiconol-castor-oil lotion was.shown one hour after application in 99/108 (91.7%) treated subjects and at day 1 in 86/99 (87%) subjects and an ovicidal effect at day 7 in 79/108 (73.2%) treated subjects. A second application of the same product was necessary to increase the cure rate to 79.6% (86/108) at day 8. In our study, the second application of the same product was performed seven days later, but the best time for additional applications should be defined in further studies. However, the efficacy of this safe physical treatment was similar to that of chemical pediculicides (malathion, permethrin).	1	pesticide
21284163	[Rapid detection of dichlorvos in chlorpyrifos by mid-infrared and near-infrared spectroscopy].	In the present study, the content of dichlorvos in chlorpyrifos was rapidly determined by mid-infrared and near-infrared spectroscopy. The quantitative models were established by partial least squares (PLS) method and optimized. The independent validation sets and 7 test samples were used to evaluate the model accuracy. The results showed that mid-infrared and near-infrared spectroscopy can accurately determine the content of dichlorvos in chlorpyrifos. The RMSEC (the root mean square error of calibration) of the mid-infrared model and near-infrared model was 0.013 and 0.020, respectively. R2 (determination coefficient) both were 1.000. For 7 test samples, RMSEP before model recalibration is 0.22 (MIRS) and 0.09 (NIRS). The adaptability of the near-infrared model was much better and model updating was unnecessary. To sum up, MIR and NIR are both rapid and easy-operation method with simple pretreatment.	1	pesticide
21309234	Comparative toxicity and repellency of microencapsulated and other liquid insecticide formulations to the German cockroach (Dictyoptera: Blattellidae).	Responses of German cockroaches, Blattella germanica (L.) (Dictyoptera: Blattellidae), to microencapsulated (ME) formulations of six insecticides (bifenthrin, chlorpyrifos, cyfluthrin, deltamethrin, lambda-cyhalothrin, and permethrin) were compared with emulsifiable concentrates (EC) (chlorpyrifos, cyfluthrin, deltamethrin, and permethrin) or ready-to-use (RTU) formulations (bifenthin and lambda-cyhalothrin). Two rates were tested per comparison. Baseline toxicity (LT50 value) was determined by continuous exposure to residual deposits. Repellency, toxicity (LT50), and performance index (PI) values were determined using Ebeling choice boxes. Baseline toxicity of the permethrin formulations was similar, but all other active ingredients had significant toxicity differences at one or both formulation x dose comparisons. Baseline toxicity and repellency were negatively correlated. Choice box LT50 and the time to reach 50% of the maximum PI were positively correlated. The maximum PI was positively correlated (P < 0.06) with baseline LT50 and negatively correlated (P < 0.07) with repellency. Chlorpyrifos had the lowest repellency except for the EC at 0.25%. Bifenthrin ME and lambda-cyhalothrin ME had greater PI values than comparative RTU formulations. Cyfluthrin EC at 0.03% and deltamethrin ME at 0.01% had significantly lower PI values than comparison treatments. Permethrin PI value for the EC at 0.03% exceeded that for the ME, but at 0.05% the ME had a significantly greater PI. These data demonstrate the difficulty in making generalizations about the relative performance of ME compared with EC or RTU formulations. Variable results observed within, and between, formulations may be influenced by application rate, formulation type, other formulation components, and the toxicity-repellency of the active ingredient.	1	pesticide
21313872	Antifungal activity of some plant extracts on Alternaria alternata, the causal agent of alternaria leaf spot of potato.	Pure methanol (m) and methanol water (mw) extracts of 5 plants namely: peppermint, eucalyptus, lavandula, Russian knapweed and datura were screened for their antifungal ability against Alternaria alternata, the causal agent of Alternaria leaf spot of potato at 5, 10 and 15% concentrations in vitro. Fungicide mancozeb 0.2% was also used for better comparison. Poisoned food technique and spore germination assay method were used to evaluate the antifungal efficacy of plant extracts. Present findings showed that methanol extracts of eucalyptus, peppermint and lavandula had impressive antifungal effects in inhibiting the mycelial growth as well as spore germination of the pathogen. It was also found that methanol extracts were quite more effective than methanol water extracts in this regard. Methanol extracts of peppermint (15%), lavandula (15%), peppermint (10%) and eucalyptus (15%) demonstrated promising ability in inhibiting the mycelial growth of A. alternata by 0.13, 0.40, 0.43 and 0.50 cm, mycelial growth respectively, while majority of methanol water extracts had either less or no effects in this connection. Spore germination of A. alternata was prominently reduced by methanol extracts, while those of methanol water extracts had very less effects in this regard. Mancozeb (0.2%), methanol extracts of eucalyptus (15%) and peppermint (10%) by 2, 6 and 7% spore germination were best, while methanol water extracts of datura 10, 15 and 5%, lavandula 15 and 10% and also Russian knapweed 5% represented no effect and by 91, 89, 87, 87, 85 and 85% spore germination were at par with control. Findings from this study confirmed that plant extracts can be used as less hazardous natural fungicides in controlling plant pathogenic fungi, thus reducing the dependence on the synthetic fungicides. Methanol extracts of peppermint, eucalyptus and lavandula might be promising materials for natural formulations in controlling Alternaria leaf spot of potato in the field.	1	pesticide
21374785	Physiological responses of three marine microalgae exposed to cypermethrin.	The effects of cypermethrin on physiological responses of three typical marine microalgal species Skeletonema costatum (Bacillariophyceae), Scrippsiella trochoidea (Dinophyceae), and Chattonella marina (Raphidophyceae), were investigated by 96-h growth tests in a batch-culture system. The 96-h median inhibition concentrations (IC(50)) were 71.4, 205, and 191 μg L(-1) for S. costatum, S. trochoidea, and C. marina, respectively. Quick and significant physiological responses occurred when algal cells were exposed to cypermethrin, and all biochemical parameters varied significantly within 6- or 12-h exposure. Cypermethrin affected algal growth, protein content, and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity by stimulation at low concentrations (1, 5 μg L(-1)) and inhibition at high concentrations (>50 μg L(-1)). A general increase in malondialdehyde (MDA) level was observed in all test groups, which suggested that the toxic effects of cypermethrin were probably exerted through free radical generation. These results suggest that the activation of SOD and promotion of protein at early exposure are important to counteract the oxidative stress induced by cypermethrin, and the inactivation of SOD may be crucial to the growth inhibition of microalgae by cypermethrin.	1	pesticide
21375462	Neoplastic alterations induced in mammalian skin following mancozeb exposure using in vivo and in vitro models.	Mancozeb, ethylene(bis)dithiocarbamate fungicides, has been well documented in the literature as a multipotent carcinogen, but the underlying mechanism remains unrevealed. Thus, mancozeb has been selected in this study with the objective to decipher the molecular mechanism that culminates in carcinogenesis. We employed two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry to generate a comparative proteome profile of control and mancozeb (200 mg/kg body weight) exposed mouse skin. Although many differentially expressed proteins were found, among them, two significantly upregulated proteins, namely, S100A6 (Calcyclin) and S100A9 (Calgranulin-B), are known markers of keratinocyte differentiation and proliferation, which suggested their role in mancozeb-induced neoplastic alterations. Therefore, we verified these alterations in the human system by using HaCaT cells as an in vitro model for human skin keratinocyte carcinogenesis. Upregulation of these two proteins upon mancozeb (0.5 μg/mL) exposure in HaCaT cells indicated its neoplastic potential in human skin also. This potential was confirmed by increase in number of colonies in colony formation and anchorage-independent growth assays. Modulation of S100A6/S100A9 targets, elevated phosphorylation of extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK1/2), Elk1, nuclear factor- kappa B and cell division cycle 25 C phosphatase, and cyclin D1 and cyclooxygenase-2 upregulation was seen. In addition, PD98059 (ERK1/2 inhibitor) reduced cell proliferation induced by mancozeb, confirming the involvement of ERK1/2 signaling. Conclusively, we herein present the first report asserting that the mechanism involving S100A6 and S100A9 regulated ERK1/2 signaling underlies the mancozeb-induced neoplastic potential in human skin.	1	pesticide
21387788	[Acute inhalation imidacloprid poisoning--a case report].	According to the best of my knowledge this is the first report of acute intoxication with imidacloprid in Poland. The 48-years old women was admitted to the hospital because of the symptoms of gastroenteritis, which occurred after inhaled exposure to imidacloprid. Mild increase in leukocyte count was found in laboratory examination. The symptoms disappeared after 2 days of the treatment. For imidacloprid, regarded as safe for humans being, toxicity can occur through inhalation exposure.	1	pesticide
21404045	A comparison of multiple esterases as biomarkers of organophosphate exposure and effect in two earthworm species.	Two different earthworm species, Eisenia fetida and Lumbricus terrestris, were exposed to 5 μg/cm(2) of malathion to evaluate their usefulness as sentinels of organophosphate exposure and to assess three different esterases, as biomarkers of malathion exposure and effect. Tissue xenobiotic burdens and esterase activity were determined for each species and each esterase in order to assess variability. E. fetida exhibited 4-fold less variability in tissue burdens than did L. terrestris and had less variable basal esterase activities. An attempt was made to correlate malathion and malaoxon tissue burdens with esterase activity post-exposure. There was no malaoxon present in the earthworm tissues. No significant correlations were determined by comparing acetylcholinesterase, butyrylcholinesterase, nor carboxylesterase activities with malathion burdens.	1	pesticide
21404858	Mortality and oviposition of western cherry fruit fly (Diptera: Tephritidae) exposed to different insecticide baits for varying periods in the presence and absence of food.	Spinosad bait is used to control western cherry fruit fly, Rhagoletis indifferens Curran (Diptera: Tephritidae), by killing flies before they oviposit. However, effects of different insecticide baits on management of reproductively mature flies are largely unknown. Objectives here were to determine mortality and oviposition of reproductively mature R. indifferens exposed to different insecticide baits for varying periods in the presence and absence of dried yeast extract and sucrose food. Spinosad bait (spinosad in a mix of protein, sugar, and other ingredients) was compared with acetamiprid, thiamethoxam, and imidacloprid in sucrose or Nu-Lure + sucrose bait. When flies were exposed to treatments and then offered cherries, Prunus avium (L.) L., for oviposition or when they were exposed to treatments and cherries simultaneously, both thiamethoxam bait and imidacloprid bait resulted in higher mortality and lower oviposition than spinosad bait and acetamiprid bait. Exposures to thiamethoxam bait and imidacloprid bait for six and 24 h were similarly effective, but 6-h exposures to spinosad bait and acetamiprid bait were less effective than 24-h exposures. There was little difference between sucrose and Nu-Lure + sucrose baits. When food was present, thiamethoxam bait and imidacloprid bait caused greater mortality and lower oviposition than spinosad bait and acetamiprid bait, but when food was absent, patterns were less consistent. Because of its ability to kill flies sooner after it is exposed to flies when food is present or absent, thiamethoxam or imidacloprid in sucrose or Nu-Lure bait may reduce infestations in cherries more than spinosad bait when mature R. indifferens are present in orchards.	1	pesticide
21409361	A long-term monitoring study of chlorophyll, microbial contaminants, and pesticides in a coastal residential stormwater pond and its adjacent tidal creek.	Stormwater ponds are commonly used in residential and commercial areas to control flooding. The accumulation of urban contaminants in stormwater ponds can lead to water-quality problems including nutrient enrichment, chemical contamination, and bacterial contamination. This study presents 5 years of monitoring data assessing water quality of a residential subdivision pond and adjacent tidal creek in coastal South Carolina, USA. The stormwater pond is eutrophic, as described by elevated concentrations of chlorophyll and phosphorus, and experiences periodic cyanobacterial blooms. A maximum  monthly average chlorophyll concentration of 318.75 μg/L was measured in the stormwater pond and 227.63 μg/L in the tidal creek. Fecal coliform bacteria (FCB) levels were measured in both the pond and the tidal creek that exceeded health and safety standards for safe recreational use. A maximum monthly average FCB level of 1,247 CFU/100 mL was measured in the stormwater pond and 12,850 CFU/100 mL in the tidal creek. In addition, the presence of antibiotic resistant bacteria and pathogenic bacteria were detected. Low concentrations of herbicides (atrazine and 2,4-D: ), a fungicide (chlorothalonil), and insecticides (pyrethroids and imidacloprid) were measured. Seasonal trends were identified, with the winter months having the lowest concentrations of chlorophyll and FCB. Statistical differences between the stormwater pond and the tidal creek were also noted within seasons. The tidal creek had higher FCB levels than the stormwater pond in the spring and summer, whereas the stormwater pond had higher chlorophyll levels than the tidal creek in the summer and fall seasons. Chlorophyll and FCB levels in the stormwater pond were significantly correlated with monthly average temperature and total rainfall. Pesticide concentrations were also significantly correlated with temperature and rainfall. Pesticide concentrations in the stormwater pond were significantly correlated with pesticide concentrations in the adjacent tidal creek. Chlorophyll and FCB levels in the tidal creek, however, were not significantly correlated with levels in the pond. While stormwater ponds are beneficial in controlling flooding, they may pose environmental and human health risks due to biological and chemical contamination. Management to reduce residential runoff may improve water quality in coastal stormwater ponds and their adjacent estuarine ecosystems.	1	pesticide
21413143	Comparative effect of integrated pest management and farmers' standard pest control practice for managing insect pests on cabbage (Brassica spp.).	BACKGROUND: Studies were conducted on experimental cabbage plantings in 2009 and on experimental and commercial plantings in 2010, comparing farmers' current chemical standard pesticide practices with an integrated pest management (IPM) program based on the use of neem (Aza-Direct) and DiPel (Bacillus thuringiensis). In experimental plantings, the IPM program used six or eight applications of neem and DiPel on a rotational basis. The standard-practice treatments consisted of six or eight applications of carbaryl and malathion or control treatment. RESULTS: The IPM treatments reduced pest populations and damage, resulting in a better yield than with the standard chemical or control treatment. When IPM treatment included three applications of neem plus three applications of DiPel (on a rotational basis in experimental fields), it again reduced the pest population and damage and produced a better yield than the standard practice. The lower input costs of the IPM program resulted in better economic returns in both trials. CONCLUSIONS: The IPM components neem and DiPel are suitable for use in an IPM program for managing insect pests on cabbage (Brassica spp.).	1	pesticide
21424220	Effects of glyphosate and polyoxyethylenamine on growth and energetic reserves in the freshwater crayfish Cherax quadricarinatus (Decapoda, Parastacidae).	Freshwater crayfish Cherax quadricarinatus have a high commercial value and are cultured in farms where they are potentially exposed to pesticides. Therefore, we examined the sublethal effects of a 50-day exposure to glyphosate acid and polyoxyethylenamine (POEA), both alone and in a 3:1 mixture, on the growth and energetic reserves in muscle, hepatopancreas and hemolymph of growing juvenile crayfish. Exposure to two different glyphosate and POEA mixtures caused lower somatic growth and decreased muscle protein levels. These effects, caused by both compounds interacting in the mixture, could also be synergistic because they were expressed even at the lowest concentration. The decrease in protein levels could be related to the greater use of other energy reserves. This hypothesis is supported by the decrease in muscle glycogen stores due to glyphosate exposure and the decrease in lipid reserves associated with exposure to POEA.	1	pesticide
21442535	Release kinetics of β-cyfluthrin from its encapsulated formulations in water.	Controlled release formulations of β-cyfluthrin, a non-systemic, broad spectrum contact insecticide, have been prepared using laboratory synthesized poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) based amphiphilic copolymers. Copolymers of polyethylene glycols of different molecular weights and various dimethyl esters, viz. dimethyl isophthalate, which self assemble into nano micellar aggregates in aqueous media, have been synthesized. The kinetics of β-cyfluthrin from developed controlled release (CR) formulations were studied in comparison with that of the commercially available 025 SC. Release from the commercial formulation was faster than with the developed CR formulations. The rate of release of encapsulated β-cyfluthrin from nano micellar aggregates is reduced by increasing the molecular weight of PEG. The diffusion exponent (n value) of β-cyfluthrin in water ranged from 0.427 to 0.622 in the tested formulations. The release was diffusion controlled with a half-release time (t(½)) of 3.92 to 7.9 days in water from different formulations, and the period of optimum availability (POA) of β-cyfluthrin ranged from 1.4 to 20.5 days. The results suggest that the application rate of β-cyfluthrin can be optimized to achieve insect control at the desired level and period.	1	pesticide
21443650	Glyphosate-drift but not herbivory alters the rate of transgene flow from single and stacked trait transgenic canola (Brassica napus) to nontransgenic B. napus and B. rapa.	• Transgenic plants can offer agricultural benefits, but the escape of transgenes is an environmental concern. In this study we tested the hypothesis that glyphosate drift and herbivory selective pressures can change the rate of transgene flow between the crop Brassica napus (canola), and weedy species and contribute to the potential for increased transgene escape risk and persistence outside of cultivation. • We constructed plant communities containing single transgenic B. napus genotypes expressing glyphosate herbicide resistance (CP4 EPSPS), lepidopteran insect resistance (Cry1Ac), or both traits ('stacked'), plus nontransgenic B. napus, Brassica rapa and Brassica nigra. Two different selective pressures, a sublethal glyphosate dose and lepidopteran herbivores (Plutella xylostella), were applied and rates of transgene flow and transgenic seed production were measured. • Selective treatments differed in the degree in which they affected gene flow and production of transgenic hybrid seed. Most notably, glyphosate-drift increased the incidence of transgenic seeds on nontransgenic B. napus by altering flowering phenology and reproductive function. • The findings of this study indicate that transgenic traits may be transmitted to wild populations and may increase in frequency in weedy populations through the direct and indirect effects of selection pressures on gene flow.	1	pesticide
21456540	In vitro metabolism of trans-permethrin and its major metabolites, PBalc and PBacid, in humans.	To estimate the metabolic profile of trans-permethrin in humans, a comparison of the in vitro metabolism of trans-permethrin in humans and rats was conducted using hepatic microsomes, and cytochrome P450 and UDP-glucuronyltransferase isoforms, which catalyze the metabolism of 3-phenoxybenzyl alcohol (PBalc) and 3-phenoxybenzoic acid (PBacid), respectively. In humans and rats, the major metabolic reaction of trans-permethrin in microsomal incubations was the cleavage of ester linkage to give PBalc, followed by oxidation to 4'-OH-PBalc, 4'-OH-PBacid, and PBacid. As to 4'-hydroxylation of PBalc, several CYPs were able to catalyze the reaction, and CYP2E1 was identified as a predominant isoform. PBacid and its conjugates (glucuronide and glycine) are major urinary metabolites of trans-permethrin in mammals. PBacid is also a metabolite of several pyrethroids, and has been used as a biomarker of human exposure to pyrethroids. Our study indicated that there was no difference in glucuronyltransferase activity of PBacid between humans and rats, and that only UGT1A9 can catalyze the glucuronidation of PBacid among human UGTs. Some UGT1A9 variants are known to have poor glucuronidation activity. From these results, it was assumed that deficiency or polymorphism of UGT1A9 might affect the profile of PBacid and its conjugates in urine collected from persons exposed to trans-permethrin or other pyrethroids. These results are helpful for understanding the metabolism of trans-permethrin in humans and determining methods for quantification of target analytes for assessment of human exposure to trans-permethrin and other pyrethroids that give PBacid and its conjugates as urinary metabolites.	1	pesticide
21472972	Laboratory assays of select candidate insecticides for control of Dendroctonus ponderosae.	BACKGROUND: The mountain pine beetle, Dendroctonus ponderosae Hopkins (Coleoptera: Curculionidae, Scolytinae), is the most destructive bark beetle in western North America. Dendroctonus ponderosae can be prevented from successfully colonizing and killing individual trees by ground-based sprays of insecticides applied directly to the tree bole. However, the future availability of several active ingredients, including carbaryl which is most commonly used in the western United States, is uncertain. Two novel insecticides, cyantraniliprole [Cyazypyr(™)-OD (oil dispersion) and Cyazypyr(™)-SC (suspension concentrate)] and chlorantraniliprole (Rynaxypyr(®)), and carbaryl were assayed in both filter paper and topical assays. RESULTS: Compared with 20,000 mg L(-1) carbaryl (i.e. the maximum label rate for solutions applied to conifers for protection from bark beetle attack in the western United States), cyantraniliprole OD caused similar rates of mortality in D. ponderosae adults at 400-fold weaker concentrations in both bioassays, while cyantraniliprole SC caused similar rates of mortality at 40-fold weaker concentrations. Probit analyses confirmed that D. ponderosae is most sensitive to cyantraniliprole OD, while chlorantraniliprole was effective at concentrations similar to carbaryl. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that lower concentrations of carbaryl have merit for field testing than have been previously considered. While cyantraniliprole and chlorantraniliprole have similar modes of action, cyantraniliprole OD appears to have greater promise for protecting individual trees from mortality attributed to D. ponderosae attack and should be evaluated in field studies.	1	pesticide
21485359	Effect of temperature and insecticide stress on life-history traits of Culex restuans and Aedes albopictus (Diptera: Culicidae).	The chronic effects of exposure of Culex restuans (Theobald) and Aedes albopictus (Skuse) (Diptera: Culicidae) to low concentrations of malathion were examined by exposing larvae of the two species to four malathion doses at 20, 25, and 30 degrees C and maintaining the resulting adults at 25 degrees C. For both species, a significant temperature by malathion interaction on survival was found. Greater temperatures at the highest malathion dosage had significantly lower survivorship than in other treatments, but this effect was not observed at 20 degrees C. These results suggest that low temperature may buffer against some of the negative effects of malathion. For both species, temperature but not malathion had significant effects on female developmental time to adulthood and adult longevity. Temperature also affected adult female size for Ae. albopictus but not Cx. restuans. Ae. albopictus females developed faster as temperature increased, lived longer when larvae were maintained at 30 degrees C than at 20 degrees C, and were larger when larvae were maintained at 25 degrees C than at 20 or 30 degrees C. Cx. restuans females developed faster at 25 and 30 degrees C than at 20 degrees C and lived longer at 25 degrees C than at 20 or 30 degrees C. The estimated finite rate of increase (lambda') for Cx. restuans was significantly lower at 20 degrees C than at 25 and 30 degrees C, whereas that of Ae. albopictus was significantly influenced by an interaction between temperature and malathion with significantly lower lambda' at 20 degrees C than at 25 and 30 degrees C for all malathion treatments except 0.014 mg liter(-1). Understanding how pesticides interact with abiotic environmental conditions will contribute to management decisions about vector control practices.	1	pesticide
21489602	Susceptibility of epigeic earthworm Eisenia fetida to agricultural application of six insecticides.	Ecotoxicological risks of agricultural application of six insecticides to soil organisms were evaluated by acute toxicity tests under laboratory condition following OECD guidelines using the epigeic earthworm Eisenia fetida as the test organism. The organochlorine insecticide endosulfan (LC(50) - 0.002 mg kg(-1)) and the carbamate insecticides aldicarb (LC(50) - 9.42 mg kg(-1)) and carbaryl (LC(50) - 14.81 mg kg(-1)) were found ecologically most dangerous because LC(50) values of these insecticides were lower than the respective recommended agricultural dose (RAD). Although E. fetida was found highly susceptible to the pyrethroid insecticide cypermethrin (LC(50) - 0.054 mg kg(-1)), the value was higher than its RAD. The organophosphate insecticides chlorpyrifos (LC(50) - 28.58 mg kg(-1)), and monocrotophos (LC(50) - 39.75 mg kg(-1)) were found less toxic and ecologically safe because the LC(50) values were much higher than their respective RAD.	1	pesticide
21561794	Interactions of human organic anion transporter 1 (hOAT1) with substances associated with forensic toxicology.	Renal excretion is an important elimination pathway for substances associated with forensic toxicology, such as medicines, agricultural chemicals, and industrial chemicals. This study aimed to elucidate the renal elimination pathway of substances using culture cells stably expressing the human organic anion transporter 1 (hOAT1) gene. Substances tested were diazepam, triazolam, haloperidol, amitriptyline, mianserin, bromovalerylurea, phenobarbital, acetaminophen, acetylsalicylic acid, lidocaine, aconitine, atropine, caffeine, nicotine, malathion, dichlorvos, fenitrothion, chlorpyrifosmethyl, paraquat, diquat, potassium cyanide, sodium arsenite, sodium azide, o-cresol, and probenecid (control, a representative inhibitor of hOAT1). Results demonstrated that diazepam, triazolam, amitriptyline, mianserin, malathion, fenitrothion, chlorpyrifosmethyl, and probenecid significantly inhibited representative substrates of hOAT1 and para-aminohippuric acid uptake by hOAT1. IC(50) values of the aforementioned substances were 133.3, 185.2, 354.1, 312.6, 114.2, 26.6, 191.5, and 7.9μM, respectively. Ki values were 83.5, 86.0, 573.9, 99.0, 134.0, 51.2, 324.6, and 9.1μM, respectively. In conclusion, the current results suggest that fenitrothion and chlorpyrifosmethyl are transported with pharmacokinetics indicative of hOAT1 involvement in the human kidney.	1	pesticide
21570940	Entomological and epidemiological attributes for malaria transmission and implementation of vector control in southern Iran.	Bashagard is an important malaria endemic area in south of Iran. An epidemiological and entomological survey was performed during 2002-2010. The aim of study was to determine malaria situation, species composition of anopheline mosquitoes and susceptibility status of main vectors to insecticides/larvicides. A total of 13,490 malaria cases were recorded, Plasmodium vivax (99.64%), P. falciparum (0.35%) and mix cases (0.01%). The highest and lowest Annual Parasite Incidence (API) were observed in 2007 (145.72/1000) and 2009 (6.29/1000), respectively. Anopheles culicifacies, An. dthali, An. stephensi, An. superpictus, An. fluviatilis, An. moghulensis, An. turkhudi and An. apoci were collected from the area. Two peak activities occur in April and October. The first five species were confirmed as malaria vectors in Iran. No indication of sporozoite in mosquitoes using molecular method was performed. Susceptibility tests using diagnostic dose of insecticides and larvicides showed only resistance of An. stephensi to DDT. Tolerance in An. stephensi to deltamethrin and bendiocarb is reported. The same phenomenon was observed in An. culicifacies to DDT, propoxur and deltamethrin, and in An. dthali to malathion and deltamethrin. Larvae of vectors were susceptible to all larvicides, except for An. stephensi that exhibited tolerance to fenthion. In conclusion it should be emphasized that malaria transmission is a complex process in Bashagard. This event is attributed to five proven vectors with different behaviors which are active in the area. Regarding tolerance of vectors to deltamethrin, resistance management is suggested by using new insecticide with novel mode of action.	1	pesticide
21620996	Induction of micronuclei and nuclear abnormalities in erythrocytes of mosquito fish (Gambusia affinis) following exposure to the pyrethroid insecticide lambda-cyhalothrin.	In the present study the induction of micronuclei (MN) and nuclear abnormalities (NA) in erythrocytes of mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis) (Baird & Girard 1853) was studied. Fish were exposed to three different concentrations of lambda-cyhalothrin (LCT) (1×10(-4)μg/l, 2×10(-4)μg/l, 4×10(-4)μg/l) for periods of 6, 12, 24, and 48h. NA (notched, lobed, blebbed nuclei), MN, bi-nucleated cells, and the ratio of polychromatic erythrocytes (PCEs) to normochromatic erythrocytes (NCEs) were evaluated to assess genotoxicity and cytotoxicity. LCT significantly induced MN and NA in erythrocytes of G. affinis. The PCE/NCE ratio was also decreased after 24- and 48-h treatments of 4×10(-4)μg/l LCT. The results show that LCT has genotoxic and cytotoxic potential on G. affinis.	1	pesticide
21621035	Feasibility of capillary liquid chromatography-microchip-atmospheric pressure photoionization-mass spectrometry for pesticide analysis in tomato.	A new and sensitive analytical method, using capillary liquid chromatography (capLC) with a microfabricated heated nebulizer chip for atmospheric pressure photoionization and tandem mass spectrometry (μAPPI-MS/MS), was developed for the analysis of selected carbamate pesticides in a tomato matrix. The performance of the instrumental method was evaluated, using seven pesticides, namely oxamyl, methomyl, aldicarb, carbofuran, pirimicarb, thiocarb, and ditalimfos. The limits of detection achieved with the capLC-μAPPI-MS/MS method in the positive ion mode were low, ranging from 0.25 ng mL(-1) for pirimicarb to 5 ng mL(-1) for oxamyl and methomyl, corresponding to 5 and 0.25 μg kg(-1) for tomato samples, respectively, which are clearly below the maximum residue limits for them in fruits and vegetables. The repeatability of the instrumental method ranged from 2.9 to 13.9% (RSD) at a low (0.05 μg mL(-1)) concentration level. An adequate linearity (r(2)=0.984-0.999) at a concentration range from 0.005 to 5.0 μg mL(-1) was observed for all pesticides. The results obtained show that the capLC-μAPPI-MS/MS method developed could be used for the analysis of selected pesticides from tomato.	1	pesticide
21645698	Multivariate curve resolution modeling of liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry data in a comparative study of the different endogenous metabolites behavior in two tomato cultivars treated with carbofuran pesticide.	A metabonomic study based on the application of multivariate curve resolution and alternating least squares (MCR-ALS) to three-way data sets obtained by liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry detection (LC-MS) was carried out for Rambo and Raf tomato cultivars treated with carbofuran pesticide. Samples were picked up during a 21 days period after treatment and analyzed by LC-MS in scan mode, along with the corresponding blank samples. Then, MCR-ALS was applied to the three-way data sets using column wise augmented matrices, and the evolutionary profiles as a function of the time after treatment were estimated for the metabolites present in both cultivars, as well as their corresponding pure spectra estimations. A comparative study using those estimations showed that some of these metabolites followed different behavior for the different cultivars after treatment. Since all treated and untreated Rambo and Raf samples were picked up according to the same sampling protocol and in a similar state of maturation, any difference in the behavior between profiles can be interpreted as an effect due to the presence of pesticide and to the kind of cultivar. Based on this hypothesis, several PLS-DA approaches were tested to check if it would be possible to classify samples by using the metabolites MCR estimations. Results showed that PLS-DA models for classification of treated or non-treated (blank) samples were the best ones obtained (98.44% of correct classifications for the validation set), which supports the stress effects related to carbofuran treatment. In addition, excellent discrimination among the four groups could be attained (89.06% of correct classifications for the validation set).	1	pesticide
21665567	Additivity of pyrethroid actions on sodium influx in cerebrocortical neurons in primary culture.	BACKGROUND: Pyrethroid insecticides bind to voltage-gated sodium channels and modify their gating kinetics, thereby disrupting neuronal function. Although previous work has tested the additivity of pyrethroids in vivo, this has not been assessed directly at the primary molecular target using a functional measure. OBJECTIVES: We investigated the potency and efficacy of 11 structurally diverse food-use pyrethroids to evoke sodium (Na+) influx in neurons and tested the hypothesis of dose additivity for a mixture of these same 11 compounds. METHODS: We determined pyrethroid-induced increases in Na+ influx in primary cultures of cerebrocortical neurons using the Na+-sensitive dye sodium-binding benzofuran isophthalate (SBFI). Concentration-dependent responses for 11 pyrethroids were determined, and the response to dilutions of a mixture of all 11 compounds at an equimolar mixing ratio was assessed. Additivity was tested assuming a dose-additive model. RESULTS: Seven pyrethroids produced concentration-dependent, tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na+ influx. The rank order of potency was deltamethrin > S-bioallethrin > β-cyfluthrin > λ-cyhalothrin > esfenvalerate > tefluthrin > fenpropathrin. Cypermethrin and bifenthrin produced modest increases in Na+ influx, whereas permethrin and resmethrin were inactive. When all 11 pyrethroids were present at an equimolar mixing ratio, their actions on Na+ influx were consistent with a dose-additive model. CONCLUSIONS: These data provide in vitro relative potency and efficacy measurements for 7 pyrethroid compounds in intact mammalian neurons. Despite differences in individual compound potencies, we found the action of a mixture of all 11 pyrethroids to be additive when we used an appropriate statistical model. These results are consistent with a previous report of the additivity of pyrethroids in vivo.	1	pesticide
21676460	Concentrations of trace elements [corrected] and organochlorines in Mutton bird (Puffinus griseus).	The Sooty Shearwater (Puffinus griseus, commonly known as Mutton bird) is a migratory wild seabird, annually harvested for food by certain native groups in New Zealand and Australia and in many parts of the world. The concentrations of 22 elements and several organochlorine pesticides [2,2-bis(chlorophenyl)-1,1,1-trichloroethane (DDT), its derivatives dichlorodiphenyldichloroethene (DDE) and dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane (DDD), aldrin, chlordane, dicofol, lindane, and methoxychlor] in Mutton bird were determined over two consecutive years to evaluate its safety for human consumption. Twenty bird carcasses were purchased in each of 2007 and 2008 from a local source. No significant year effect (P>0.05) was found in the following nine trace elements: Al, As, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Ni, Pb and Se. The concentrations of Hg, Li and Na were higher (P<0.05) in 2008 samples compared to 2007. The toxic trace elements (mg/kg wet weight) in all the samples were below the maximum residual level (MRL). The concentration of Fe, Ca and Se in Mutton bird was higher than that in domestic land animal meats reported in literature. The residual organochlorine concentrations were all below the recommended MRL. Thus Mutton bird meat is high in essential nutrient elements and of low toxicological risk. Due to active use of agrochemical in New Zealand, a monitoring program for contaminants in Mutton birds is recommended.	1	pesticide
21689973	A simple and green analytical method for determination of glyphosate in commercial formulations and water by diffuse reflectance spectroscopy.	This article describes a simple, inexpensive, and environmentally friendly method for the monitoring of glyphosate using diffuse reflectance spectroscopy. The proposed method is based on reflectance measurements of the colored compound produced from the spot test reaction between glyphosate and p-dimethylaminocinnamaldehyde (p-DAC) in acid medium, using a filter paper as solid support. Experimental designs were used to optimize the analytical conditions. All reflectance measurements were carried out at 495 nm. Under optimal conditions, the glyphosate calibration graphs obtained by plotting the optical density of the reflectance signal (AR) against the concentration were linear in the range 50-500 μg mL(-1), with a correlation coefficient of 0.9987. The limit of detection (LOD) for glyphosate was 7.28 μg mL(-1). The technique was successfully applied to the direct determination of glyphosate in commercial formulations, as well as in water samples (river water, pure water and mineral drinking water) after a previous clean-up or pre-concentration step. Recoveries were in the ranges 93.2-102.6% and 91.3-102.9% for the commercial formulations and water samples, respectively.	1	pesticide
21692644	Baseline sensitivity of natural population and resistance of mutants in Phytophthora capsici to zoxamide.	Laboratory experiments were conducted to determine the baseline sensitivity of Phytophthora capsici and its risk for developing resistance to zoxamide. In total, 158 P. capsici isolates were collected from China. All 158 isolates were sensitive to zoxamide, with effective concentrations for 50% inhibition of mycelial growth of 0.023 to 0.383 μg/ml and a mean of 0.114 μg/ml, which showed a skewed unimodal distribution. Zoxamide-resistant mutants of P. capsici were obtained by either treating mycelial culture and zoospores with ultraviolet irradiation or adapting a culture on zoxamide-amended plates. The frequency of resistance selection averaged 1.8 × 10(-7). Resistant isolates were also derived by selfing or crossing two sexually compatible isolates, resulting in a mean selection frequency of 0.47. The resistance factor (RF) for zoxamide was 25 to 100 in P. capsici mutants. Through 10 culture transfers, the mutants maintained high levels of RF (between 14 and 134) and had almost equal fitness as their wild-type parents in mycelial growth, sporulation, and virulence. There was no cross resistance between zoxamide and either flumorph, metalaxyl, azoxystrobin, or etridiazole. Based on the results above, P. capsici can develop resistance to zoxamide, and the risk is predicted to be moderate in nature.	1	pesticide
21696801	Poor efficacy of herbicides in biochar-amended soils as affected by their chemistry and mode of action.	We evaluated wheat straw biochar produced at 450°C for its ability to influence bioavailability and persistence of two commonly used herbicides (atrazine and trifluralin) with different modes of action (photosynthesis versus root tip mitosis inhibitors) in two contrasting soils. The biochar was added to soils at 0%, 0.5% and 1.0% (w/w) and the herbicides were applied to those soil-biochar mixes at nil, half, full, two times, and four times, the recommended dosage (H(4)). Annual ryegrass (Lolium rigidum) was grown in biochar amended soils for 1 month. Biochar had a positive impact on ryegrass survival rate and above-ground biomass at most of the application rates, and particularly at H(4). Within any given biochar treatment, increasing herbicide application decreased the survival rate and fresh weight of above-ground biomass. Biomass production across the biochar treatment gradient significantly differed (p<0.01) and was more pronounced in the case of atrazine than trifluralin. For example, the dose-response analysis showed that in the presence of 1% biochar in soil, the value of GR(50) (i.e. the dose required to reduce weed biomass by 50%) for atrazine increased by 3.5 times, whereas it increased only by a factor of 1.6 in the case of trifluralin. The combination of the chemical properties and the mode of action governed the extent of biochar-induced reduction in bioavailability of herbicides. The greater biomass of ryegrass in the soil containing the highest biochar (despite having the highest herbicide residues) demonstrates decreased bioavailability of the chemicals caused by the wheat straw biochar. This work clearly demonstrates decreased efficacy of herbicides in biochar amended soils. The role played by herbicide chemistry and mode of action will have major implications in choosing the appropriate application rates for biochar amended soils.	1	pesticide
21704758	Development of a gas chromatography-mass spectrometry method for the determination of pesticides in gaseous and particulate phases in the atmosphere.	A reliable multi-residue method for determining gaseous and particulate phase pesticides in atmospheric samples has been developed. This method, based on full scan gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS), allowed the proper determination of sixteen relevant pesticides, in a wide range of concentrations and without the influence of interferences. The pesticides were benfluralin, bitertanol, buprofezin, chlorfenvinphos, chlorpyrifos, chlorpyrifos-methyl, ethalfluralin, fenthion, lindane, malathion, methidathion, propachlor, propanil, pyriproxifen, tebuconazol and trifluralin. Comparisons of two types of sampling filters (quartz and glass fibre) and four types of solid-phase cartridges (XAD-2, XAD-4, Florisil and Orbo-49P) showed that the most suitable supports were glass fibre filter for particulate pesticides and XAD-2 and XAD-4 cartridges for gaseous pesticides (>95% recovery). Evaluations of elution solvents for ultrasonic-assisted extraction demonstrated that isooctane is better than ethylacetate, dichloromethane, methanol or a mixture of acetone:hexane (1:1). Recovery assays and the standard addition method were performed to validate the proposed methodology. Moreover, large simulator chamber experiments allowed the best study of the gas-particle partitioning of pesticides for testing the sampling efficiency for the validation of an analytical multiresidue method for pesticides in air. Satisfactory analytical parameters were obtained, with a repeatability of 5±1%, a reproducibility of 13±3% and detection limits of 0.05-0.18 pg m(-3) for the particulate phase and 26-88 pg m(-3) for the gaseous phase. Finally, the methodology was successfully applied to rural and agricultural samples in the Mediterranean area.	1	pesticide
21715010	Dietary exposure to persistent organochlorine pesticides in 2007 Chinese total diet study.	"Dietary exposure to persistent organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) was assessed for Chinese populations, using the total diet study (TDS) approach in 2007. Multistage random cluster sampling method was used in this study. 108 composite samples, representative of foods ""as consumed"" by the Chinese were analyzed for residues of OCPs by a multi-residue method. The result showed that hexachlorobenzene (HCB), dichloro-diphenyl-trichloroethane (DDT), chlordane compounds (CHLs), hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) and heptachlor could be detected in, respectively 84%, 39%, 37%, 13% and 5% of all samples. Concentrations of DDT in all samples ranged from undetectable levels to 72.2 μg/kg. Others were minor components in the OCPs profile. The residual levels of OCPs were significantly below the Extraneous Maximum Residue Limits (EMRLs). Based on the 2000 nationwide food consumption survey, the average dietary exposure of the Chinese to DDT, HCH, HCB, CHLs, and heptachlor was estimated to be 0.016, 0.002, 0.009, 0.006, and 0.001 μg/kg body weight per day respectively, showing a significant decrease trend compared with the past. The major food groups contributing to dietary OCPs were aquatic foods, meats, and cereals. The average and high end estimated daily intakes of different OCPs for the Chinese were both lower than the tolerable daily intake (TDI) suggested by authorities indicating low health risk of OCPs dietary exposure among Chinese adults at present. However, the risk of carcinogenicity of the OCPs should be concerned with if the carcinogenicity effects from the exposures to these OCPs were considered."	1	pesticide
21728333	Adulticidal activity of phthalides identified in Cnidium officinale rhizome to B- and Q-biotypes of Bemisia tabaci.	The residual contact toxicity of three benzofuranoids (Z)-butylidenephthalide (1), (3S)-butylphthalide (2), and (Z)-ligustilide (3) identified in the rhizome of Cnidium officinale (Apiaceae) to B- and Q-biotype females of Bemisia tabaci was evaluated using a leaf-dip bioassay. Results were compared with those of eight conventional insecticides. Based on 24 h LC(50) values, (Z)-butylidenephthalide (254 ppm) and (Z)-ligustilide (268 ppm) were more toxic than (3S)-butylphthalide (339 ppm) against B-biotype females, whereas (Z)-ligustilide (254 ppm) and (3S)-butylphthalide (338 ppm) were more toxic than (Z)-butylidenephthalide (586 ppm) against Q-biotype females. Thiamethoxam, imidacloprid, and acetamiprid differ significantly in toxicity between the B- and Q-biotype females (LC(50), 1.7 to 11.6 vs 364.5 to >3000 ppm). This original finding indicates that the phthalides and the neonicotinoids do not share a common mode of action or elicit cross-resistance. Structure-activity relationship indicates that the presence of conjugation rather than aromaticity appeared to play an important role for phthalide toxicities to the B-biotype females. Global efforts to reduce the level of highly toxic synthetic insecticides in the agricultural environment justify further studies on C. officinale rhizome-derived materials as potential insecticides for the control of B. tabaci populations.	1	pesticide
21735901	Sublethal effects of imidacloprid on Bemisia tabaci (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae) under laboratory conditions.	The sweetpotato whitefly, Bemisia tabaci (Gennadius) (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae), is one of the most important pests in tropical and subtropical agriculture and is a key pest in greenhouse production worldwide. Current management of B. tabaci relies upon frequent applications of insecticides. Insecticide use not only directly affects pest populations through acute toxicity but also has indirect (sublethal) effects on pest physiology or behavior. In this study, we described sublethal effects of imidacloprid on adult feeding, immature development, adult fecundity, and F1 development of B. tabaci. Honeydew excretion of adults feeding on leaves treated with LC20 and LC40 concentration was significantly lower than that on untreated leaf discs. Egg production of B. tabaci adults subject to LC20 and LC40 concentrations also was less than untreated individuals. Upon transfer to untreated leaves, honeydew excretion and egg production recovered well within 24 and 48 h, respectively. Exposure to LC20 and LC40 concentrations significantly affected developmental time of B. tabaci eggs and nymphs, whereas it did not affect adult molting rate. We did not find sublethal effects on longevity and fecundity of B. tabaci adults when exposed to LC90 and LC40 concentrations for 24 h, and on egg hatching rate, nymphal mortality, and molting rate of the subsequent F1 generation. Exposure to imidacloprid at LC40 concentration significantly decreased the number of females in the F1 generation. Imidacloprid negatively affects development and reproduction of exposed individuals, and sex ratio of subsequent (F1) generation of B. tabaci, which probably disrupts B. tabaci population dynamics, slows population increase, and reduces infestation levels. Therefore, it is necessary to consider potential impact from imidacloprid for integrated management of the pest.	1	pesticide
21752420	Ecotoxicity evaluation of selected sulfonamides.	Sulfonamides (SAs) are a group of antibiotic drugs widely used in veterinary medicine. The contamination of the environment by these pharmaceuticals has raised concern in recent years. However, knowledge of their (eco)toxicity is still very basic and is restricted to just a few of these substances. Even though their toxicological analysis has been thoroughly performed and ecotoxicological data are available in the literature, a systematic analysis of their ecotoxicological potential has yet to be carried out. To fill this gap, 12 different SAs were chosen for detailed analysis with the focus on different bacteria as well as non-target organisms (algae and plants). A flexible (eco)toxicological test battery was used, including enzymes (acetylcholinesterase and glutathione reductase), luminescent marine bacteria (Vibrio fischeri), soil bacteria (Arthrobacter globiformis), limnic unicellular green algae (Scenedesmus vacuolatus) and duckweed (Lemna minor), in order to take into account both the aquatic and terrestrial compartments of the environment, as well as different trophic levels. It was found that SAs are not only toxic towards green algae (EC₅₀=1.54-32.25 mg L⁻¹) but have even stronger adverse effect on duckweed (EC₅₀=0.02-4.89 mg L⁻¹) than atrazine - herbicide (EC₅₀=2.59 mg L⁻¹).	1	pesticide
21770013	Integrated management of Thrips tabaci (Thysanoptera: Thripidae) on onion in north-western Italy: basic approaches for supervised control.	BACKGROUND: Thrips tabaci Lindeman (Thysanoptera: Thripidae) is a major pest on onion, Allium cepa L., worldwide. In 2010, research was conducted in a commercial onion field in north-western Italy in order (i) to evaluate the efficacy of different insecticides and of the SAR activator acibenzolar-S-methyl, (ii) to correlate thrips infestation levels with bulb size and weight at harvest and (iii) to implement a reliable thrips sampling method. Efficacy of the three active ingredients spinosad, lambda-cyhalothrin and acibenzolar-S-methyl on local thrips populations were also evaluated in laboratory bioassays. RESULTS: During field surveys, the highest and the lowest thrips infestations were observed in plots treated with lambda-cyhalothrin and with spinosad and acibenzolar-S-methyl respectively. The effectiveness of spinosad was also confirmed in laboratory bioassays. At harvest, bulb size and weight did not significantly differ between treatments. A high correlation with visual inspection made plant beating a suitable sampling method for routine practice, enabling a good estimate of thrips infestation. CONCLUSION: Damage caused by thrips is often not severe enough to warrant the frequent pesticide applications the crops receive in north-western Italy. The use of spinosad and acibenzolar-S-methyl is suggested as an alternative to conventional insecticides for the preservation of natural enemies.	1	pesticide
21774469	Development of green onion and cabbage certified reference materials for quantification of organophosphorus and pyrethroid pesticides.	Green onion and cabbage certified reference materials for the analysis of pesticide residues were issued by the National Metrology Institute of Japan, part of the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology. Green onion and cabbage samples were grown so as to contain several kinds of organophosphorus and pyrethroid pesticides, and those were collected from a field in the Kochi Prefecture in Japan. The certification was carried out by using multiple analytical methods to ensure the reliability of analytical results; the values of target pesticides (diazinon, fenitrothion, cypermethrin, etofenprox, and permethrin for green onion and chlorpyrifos, fenitrothion, and permethrin for cabbage) were obtained by isotope dilution mass spectrometry. Certified values of target pesticides were 0.96-13.9 and 2.41-6.9 mg/kg for green onion and cabbage, respectively. These are the first green onion and cabbage powder certified reference materials in which organophosphorus and pyrethroid pesticides are determined.	1	pesticide
21777735	Efficacy of a novel combination of fipronil, amitraz and (S)-methoprene for treatment and control of tick species infesting dogs in Europe.	Four studies were conducted to show the effectiveness of a novel combination of fipronil, amitraz and (S)-methoprene in a spot-on formulation (CERTIFECT™, Merial Limited, GA, USA) for the therapeutic and preventive control of Ixodid tick species affecting dogs in Europe: Ixodes ricinus, Dermacentor reticulatus and Rhipicephalus sanguineus. In each, untreated control dogs were compared to others treated with the novel combination. All dogs were infested with 50 adult, unfed ticks prior to treatment and at 7-day intervals after treatment. Ticks on all dogs were counted at 18, 24 and 48 h after treatment (therapeutic efficacy) or infestation (preventive efficacy). Therapeutic efficacy of fipronil, amitraz and (S)-methoprene was excellent as shown by significant (p<0.05) and greater than 97% and up to 100% reductions in the 48 h tick counts and significant (p<0.05) detachment/death of ticks evident at 18-24h after treatment for all three tick species. Preventive efficacy was demonstrated by significant (p<0.05) and greater than 93% and up to 100% reductions in tick counts at 48 h after repeat infestations out to 35 days after treatment for I. ricinus and out to 42 days after treatment for D. reticulatus and R. sanguineus. The time to substantial disruption of establishment of new tick infestations after treatment was less than 18-24h and was maintained for up to 28 days after treatment of I. ricinus and D. reticulatus infestations, and 4h to at most 18 h and maintained up to 35 days after treatment of R. sanguineus. Similar preventive efficacy profiles for each of the Ixodid species tested suggest that CERTIFECT kills all Ixodid species starting 4h after contact as demonstrated for R. sanguineus.	1	pesticide
21779679	[Control of visceral leishmaniasis in the town of Porteirinha, state of Minas Gerais, Brazil, from 1998 to 2003].	INTRODUCTION: In the town of Porteirinha, State of Minas Gerais, 23 human cases of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in 1998 and 1999 were recorded. METHODS: A study was conducted involving the triad of action recommended for the control of VL. Patients were treated and serologically positive dogs were euthanized quarterly. The pyrethroid insecticide α-cypermethrin was applied in the neighborhoods where human cases were recorded. RESULTS: A reduction in canine seroprevalence and sand flies occurred following the implementation of control measures, reflecting in a reduction in human cases of VL. CONCLUSIONS: The results show the efficiency of such control measures when used in association.	1	pesticide
21782740	Analysis of functional effects of a mixture of five pesticides using a ray design.	The protection of human health from the adverse effects of cumulative environmental exposure to chemical mixtures is an important issue. Of particular interest is the detection and characterization of interaction among chemicals in complex mixtures. Response surface methodology, often supported by factorial designs, is the classical statistical experimental approach. Fixed-ratio ray designs, which may include the use of single chemical data in addition to data along mixture ray(s), have been proposed as an alternative approach. Such designs permit a reduction in the amount of experimental effort when the region of interest can be restricted to exposure-relevant mixing ratios. A 'single chemicals required' (SCR) approach and a 'single chemicals not required' (SCNR) approach are both described. The methods are illustrated with a five-chemical mixture of organophosphorus pesticides-acephate (ACE), diazinon (DIA), chlorpyrifos (CPF), malathion (MAL) and dimethoate (DIM). Their relative proportions in the mixture were based on the relative dietary human exposure estimates of each chemical as projected by the U.S. EPA Dietary Exposure Evaluation Model (DEEM). Use of the SCR and SCNR methods for binary endpoints are demonstrated using a dichotomized gait score as an indication of toxicity. For both methods, the overall hypothesis of additivity was rejected, indicating significant departure from additivity when the five pesticides were combined at the specified mixing ratio. By comparison of the predicted response under additivity to the modeled response of the experimental mixture data this departure from additivity was characterized as synergy (greater than additive toxicity). To examine the influence of malathion in the mixture, it was removed from the five-pesticide mixture (full ray) and the remaining four chemicals (reduced ray) were combined at the same relative proportions used in the full fixed-ratio ray There was not a significant departure from additivity along the ray with the four remaining pesticides omitting malathion. Thus, although malathion was not dose-responsive alone, it significantly interacted with the other pesticides.	1	pesticide
21783705	Effects of subchronic malathion exposure on the pharmacokinetic disposition of pefloxacin.	Malathion is one of the most extensively used organophosphorus pesticides applied in agriculture, mosquito eradication and in the control of animal ectoparasites and human body lice. The widespread use of malathion has raised concern over its potential to cause untoward health effects in humans, animals and birds. Malathion inhibits cytochrome P450 monooxygenases and has the potential to alter pharmacokinetic profiles of therapeutic agents that are metabolized in the liver. The present study was undertaken to evaluate the impact of subchronic exposure of malathion on the pharmacokinetic disposition of pefloxacin. Chickens were given either normal diet or malathion through food at a concentration of 1000ppm for 28 days. Subsequently, pefloxacin was administered either intravenously or orally (control) to birds fed normal diet and orally to malathion-exposed chickens at a dosage of 10mgkg(-1) body weight. Blood samples were drawn from the brachial vein at predetermined time intervals after drug administration. Plasma was separated and analyzed for pefloxacin by reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography. The plasma concentration-time data were analyzed by non-compartmental techniques. Following intravenous administration of pefloxacin, elimination half-life (t(1/2β)), area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) and mean residence time (MRT) were 8.2±0.7h, 66±9μghml(-1) and 10.5±1.1h, respectively, and when the drug was administered orally, the respective values of pharmacokinetic parameters were 8.2±0.4h, 31±3.1μghml(-1) and 11.7±0.6h. Malathion exposure significantly increased maximum plasma drug concentration, t(1/2β), AUC and MRT of pefloxacin to 54, 22, 117 and 37% of control, respectively. These findings provide evidence that subchronic malathion exposure markedly influences the elimination kinetics of pefloxacin which may be due to malathion-mediated inhibition of metabolism of pefloxacin.	1	pesticide
21783779	Exposure of birds to cholinesterase-inhibiting pesticides following a forest application for tick control.	A mixture of malathion (4%), carbaryl (2%) and cypermethrin (4%) was applied as dry powder to forest and grasslands at a rate of 5kg/ha for tick control in 1500ha of a deer hunting estate in the south of Spain. The effect on plasma cholinesterase (ChE) of house sparrow and nightingale, and brain ChE of red-legged partridge was studied. Plasma ChE was lower after the treatment in passerine birds, but brain AChE was not affected in partridges. The body condition of house sparrows was significantly lower after the treatment.	1	pesticide
21787695	DNA damage and cholinesterase activity in occupational workers exposed to pesticides.	The present study was designed to evaluate genotoxicity, acetyl cholinesterase (AChE) activity, hepatic and renal toxicity in occupational workers exposed to mixture of pesticides (n=70) with same number of healthy subjects as controls. The mean comet tail DNA % (TD %) and tail moment (TM) were used to measure DNA damage, while AChE activity and other biochemical parameters such as markers of nephrotoxicity (urea and creatinine) and hepatotoxicity (AST, ALT and ALP) were measured as biomarkers for toxicity due to exposure of pesticides. The occupational workers were continuously exposed to mixture of pirimiphos methyl, chlorpyrifos, temephos and malathion on a regular interval as per usage and activity. The comet assay using lymphocytes of exposed workers showed significantly higher TD percentage value (60.43% vs. 31.86%, p<0.001) and TM value (14.48 μm vs. 6.42 μm, p<0.001) in occupational workers as compared to controls. AChE activity in erythrocytes was found to be decreased (3.45 KAU/L vs. 9.55 KAU/L in controls, p<0.001) and associated with the duration of exposure to pesticides used by the workers. Enzyme levels for hepatic and renal functions were also found significantly different in occupational workers than healthy controls (p<0.001). These results suggest that the exposure to mixture of pirimiphos methyl, chlorpyrifos, temephos and malathion may induce DNA damage, decrease in AChE activity, hepatotoxicity as well as nephrotoxicity. Periodic biomonitoring of these biomarkers along with imparting education and training to occupational workers for safe application of pesticides is recommended for its potential hazards.	1	pesticide
21810010	Application of QuEChERS method and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry for the analysis of cypermethrin residue in milk.	Analytical methods for the isolation and determination of cypermethrin in milk, based on the solid-phase microextraction (SPME) and QuEChERS methods (Quick, Easy, Cheap, Effective, Rugged, and Safe) are presented. The SPME technique was not appropriate to analyse cypermethrin in milk, even establishing the best extraction conditions, polydimethylsiloxane fiber, 60 min time extraction, 60 °C temperature extraction, addition of salt (NaCl) and stirring rate. The extraction efficiency was low probably because of the matrix constituents. The QuEChERS method involves the extraction of the analyte with acetonitrile and simultaneous liquid-liquid partitioning formed by adding anhydrous MgSO(4) plus NaCl, followed by the removal of residual water and cleanup using a procedure called dispersive solid-phase extraction, in which anhydrous MgSO(4) plus PSA and C18 are mixed with 1 mL of acetonitrile extract. The detection and quantification limits were 0.01 and 0.04 mg kg(-1), respectively, and the percentage recovery obtained ranged from 92 to 105% with relative standard deviations below 7%.	1	pesticide
21831431	Assessment of pesticide residues in commonly used vegetables in Hyderabad, Pakistan.	The aim of present study was to assess pesticide residues in vegetables in the Hyderabad region of Pakistan. The concentrations of six pesticides were determined by gas chromatography coupled with mass selective detector (GC-MSD) in locally produced vegetables purchased from wholesale markets. A total of 200 samples of eight vegetables viz. cauliflower, green chilli, eggplant, tomato, peas, bitter gourd, spinach and apple gourd were analyzed for pesticide residues. The results indicated that almost all samples were contained pesticides, only 39% contained pesticide residues at or below maximum residue limits (MRLs), and 61% contained pesticide residues above MRLs. From the six analyzed pesticides, carbofuran and chlorpyrifos were found above to MRLs with concentrations ranging from 0.01-0.39 and 0.05-0.96 mg/kg, respectively. The results provided important information on the current pesticide contamination status of some commonly used vegetables and pointed an urgent need to control the use of some excessively applied and potentially persistent pesticides, such as carbofuran and chlorpyrifos.	1	pesticide
21840035	Developmental toxicity of cypermethrin in embryo-larval stages of zebrafish.	Cypermethrin, a type II pyrethroid insecticide, is widely used throughout the world in agriculture, forestry, horticulture and homes. Though the neurotoxicity of cypermethrin has been thoroughly studied in adult rodents, little is so far available regarding the developmental toxicity of cypermethrin to fish in early life stages. To explore the potential developmental toxicity of cypermethrin, 4-h post-fertilization (hpf) zebrafish embryos were exposed to various concentrations of cypermethrin (0, 25, 50, 100, 200 and 400 μg L⁻¹) until 96 h. Among a suite of morphological abnormalities, the unique phenotype curvature was observed at concentrations as low as 25 μg L⁻¹. Studies revealed that 400 μg L⁻¹ cypermethrin significantly increased malondialdehyde production. In addition, activity of antioxidative enzymes including superoxide dismutase and catalase were significantly induced in zebrafish larvae in a concentration-dependent manner. To further investigate the toxic effects of cypermethrin on fish, acridine orange (AO) staining was performed at 400 μg L⁻¹ cypermethrin and the result showed notable signs of apoptosis mainly in the nervous system. Cypermethrin also down-regulated ogg1 and increased p53 gene expression as well as the caspase-3 activity. Our results demonstrate that cypermethrin was able to induce oxidative stress and produce apoptosis through the involvement of caspases in zebrafish embryos. In this study, we investigated the developmental toxicity of cypermethrin using zebrafish embryos, which could be helpful in fully understanding the potential mechanisms of cypermethrin exposure during embryogenesis and also suggested that zebrafish could serve as an ideal model for studying developmental toxicity of environmental contaminants.	1	pesticide
21864905	Effects of carbofuran on the sea bass (Dicentrarchus labrax L.): study of biomarkers and behaviour alterations.	The objective of this study was to investigate the acute effects of the pesticide carbofuran on the sea bass (Dicentrarchus labrax) using parameters at different levels of biological organisation (swimming behaviour and several biomarkers) and possible relationships between alterations found in different effect criteria. In a bioassay, sea bass juveniles were individually exposed to different doses of carbofuran (31, 63, 125 and 250 μg/L) for 96 h. At the end of the bioassay, the swimming performance and 11 biomarkers were determined. Biomarkers were: hepatosomatic index (HSI), lipid peroxidation (LPO), reduced glutathione and the activities of the enzymes ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD), glutathione S-transferases, superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, brain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and muscle cholinesterases (ChE). After 96 h of exposure, carbofuran induced a decrease of the swimming velocity and inhibition of EROD activity at all concentrations tested, and inhibition of muscle ChE and brain AChE activities at 250 μg/L. No relevant alterations in any of the other tested parameters were found. These results show that carbofuran induced adverse effects on fish by interfering with neurofunction, capability of detoxication and swimming velocity. In addition, positive and significant correlations between the swimming velocity and (i) brain AChE activity, (ii) muscle ChE activity and (iii) EROD activity suggest that the inhibition of these enzymes may somehow be related to the behavioural changes observed. Since these functions are determinant for the survival and performance of the fish in the wild, the findings of the present study suggest that adverse effects may occur in populations exposed to carbofuran if a sufficient number of animals is affected.	1	pesticide
21869455	Interplay among regulators of multidrug resistance in Kluyveromyces lactis.	The KlYAP1 and KlPDR1 genes encode two main transcriptional regulators involved in the control of multidrug resistance in Kluyveromyces lactis. Deletion of KlPDR1 or KlYAP1 genes in K. lactis generated strain hypersusceptible to diamide, benomyl, fluconazole and oligomycin. Overexpression of genes KlPDR1 or KlYAP1 from a multicopy plasmid in the Klpdr1Δ mutant strain increased the tolerance of transformants to all the drugs tested. YRE response elements were found in the promoter of the KlPDR1 gene. Gel retardation assays confirmed the binding of KlYap1p to the YREs in the KlPDR1 gene promoter indicating that KlYap1p can control the KlPDR1 gene expression.	1	pesticide
21870159	Biodegradation of soil-applied pesticides by selected strains of plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) and their effects on bacterial growth.	A laboratory study was conducted to investigate the influence of four PGPR strains on the degradation of five soil applied pesticides and their effects on bacterial growth. Interactions of Bacillus subtilis GB03, Bacillus subtilis FZB24, Bacillus amyloliquefaciens IN937a and Bacillus pumilus SE34 with two concentrations of acibenzolar-S-methyl, metribuzin, napropamide, propamocarb hydrochloride and thiamethoxam in liquid culture and soil microcosm were studied. The degradation of acibenzolar-S-methyl by all PGPR tested in low and high concentration, was 5.4 and 5.7 times, respectively, faster than that in non-inoculated liquid culture medium. At the end of the 72-h liquid cultured experiments, 8-18, 9-11, 15-36 and 11-22% of metribuzin, napropamide, propamocarb hydrochloride and thiamethoxam, respectively, had disappeared from PGPR inoculated medium. Under the soil microcosm experimental conditions, the half-lives of acibenzolar-S-methyl incubated in the presence of PGPR strains spiked at 1.0 and 10.0 mg kg(-1) were 10.3-16.4 and 9.2-15.9 days, respectively, markedly lower compared with >34.2 days in the control. From the rest pesticides studied degradation of propamocarb hydrochloride and thiamethoxam was enhanced in the presence of B. amyloliquefaciens IN937a and B. pumilus SE34. Acibenzolar-S-methyl, propamocarb hydrochloride and thiamethoxam significantly increased the PGPR growth. However, the stimulatory effect was related to the level of pesticide spiked.	1	pesticide
21870981	Effects of chitin and contact insecticide complexes on rove beetles in commercial orchards.	A five-year research project was performed to explore the potential effects of contact insecticide applications on the change of abundance and species richness of predatory rove beetles (Coleoptera: Staphylinidae) in conventionally managed orchards. Twelve blocks of nine orchards were used for this study in Central Europe. High sensitivity atomic force microscopic examination was carried out for chitin structure analyses as well as computer simulation for steric energy calculation between insecticides and chitin. The species richness of rove beetles in orchards was relatively high after insecticide application. Comparing the mean abundance before and after insecticide application, a higher value was observed before spraying with alphacypermethrin and lambda-cyhalothrin, and a lower value was observed in the cases of diflubenzuron, malathion, lufenuron, and phosalone. The species richness was higher only before chlorpyrifos-methyl application. There was a negative correlation between abundance and stability value of chitin-insecticides, persistence time, and soil absorption coefficients. Positive correlation was observed with lipo- and water solubility.	1	pesticide
21882705	Differential resistance and cross-resistance to three phenylpyrazole insecticides in the planthopper Nilaparvata lugens (Hemiptera: Delphacidae).	Cross-resistance to two fipronil analogs, butene-fipronil and ethiprole, was detected in fipronil-resistant field populations and a resistant laboratory strain of the planthopper Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) (Hemiptera: Delphacidae), although the two analogs have not been used widely in rice-growing areas in China. The results showed that six field populations with 23.8-43.3-fold resistance to fipronil had reached a higher level of cross-resistance to ethiprole (resistance ratio [RR] = 47.1-100.9-fold) and had a minor level of cross-resistance (RR = 3.4- 8.1-fold) to butene-fipronil. After 10 generations of selection, the RR to fipronil increased from 7.3-fold to 41.3-fold. At the same time, the insect increased cross-RR to ethiprole from 16.3-fold to 65.6-fold, whereas it had only minor increase in cross-resistance to butene-fipronil from 2.8-fold to 4.0-fold. These results confirmed that fipronil-resistant N. lugens could develop a higher level of cross-resistance to ethiprole, although it still maintained a lower level cross-resistance to butene-fipronil. Our data suggest that ethiprole is not a suitable alternative for controlling N. lugens, once the insect has developed a high level resistance to fipronil. Further investigation is necessary to understand the cross-resistance mechanisms in N. lugens.	1	pesticide
21884765	Synthesis of azoxystrobin transformation products and selection of monoclonal antibodies for immunoassay development.	The use of agrochemicals for crop protection may result in the presence of toxic residues in soils and aquatic environments, besides in foodstuffs. Most often just the parent compound is included in the definition of pesticide residue, even though chemicals resulting from biotransformation and degradation routes might also be of toxicological relevance. Azoxystrobin is a broad-spectrum systemic fungicide widely used worldwide to combat pathogenic fungi affecting plants. We herein report the synthesis and detailed chemical characterization of several of the most relevant metabolites and degradates of azoxystrobin. These compounds were further employed as ligands for screening a collection of monoclonal antibodies to azoxystrobin, which had been previously generated from haptens functionalized at different positions of the target chemical. As a result, an antibody was identified capable of binding, with subnanomolar affinity, not only azoxystrobin but also its main transformation products, such as the so-called acid and enol derivatives, as well as the azoxystrobin (Z)-isomer. The selected binder was demonstrated as a useful immunoreagent for the development of immunochemical assays as novel analytical tools for the qualitative determination of azoxystrobin and its metabolites and degradates.	1	pesticide
21919187	Developing Drosophila suzukii management programs for sweet cherry in the western United States.	BACKGROUND: The spotted wing drosophila, Drosophila suzukii Matsumura (Diptera: Drosophilidae), is a newly introduced pest of sweet cherry on the west coast of North America which produces about 97% of the value of the US sweet cherry crop. D. suzukii initially caused considerable economic loss to cherry growers, who were unaware of this new pest. Little control information was available at the time of initial infestation. Pest control studies were initiated to examine the materials, timings and application methods to control D. suzukii in three major cherry-producing states (California, Oregon and Washington). RESULTS: Three classes of registered insecticides, organophosphates, pyrethroids and spinosyns, have demonstrated good topical or residual activity against D. suzukii. Neonicotinoids and the systemic organophosphate dimethoate appear to be able to kill eggs or larvae in fruit. Preliminary timing studies indicate that at least two preharvest insecticide sprays are required to obtain control of D. suzukii in California cherry orchards. Aerially applied malathion ULV (ultra-low volume) appears to be a viable control tactic for this pest. CONCLUSION: The results presented here form the basis for developing D. suzukii management programs in the western United States. Additional studies are needed to refine management practices for the different growing regions and conventional versus organic production requirements. Cherry growers will likely need to apply broad-spectrum insecticides in a prophylactic manner until treatment thresholds and monitoring methods have been developed and validated.	1	pesticide
21936321	Insecticide resistance in bedbugs in Thailand and laboratory evaluation of insecticides for the control of Cimex hemipterus and Cimex lectularius (Hemiptera: Cimicidae).	Bedbugs are found in many countries around the world, and in some regions they are resistant to numerous insecticides. This study surveyed bedbugs in Thailand and determined their resistance to insecticides. The surveys were carried out in six provinces that attract large numbers of foreign tourists: Bangkok, Chonburi, Chiang Mai, Ubon Ratchathani, Phuket, and Krabi. Bedbugs were collected from hotels and colonized in the laboratory to evaluate their resistance to insecticides. Cimex hemipterus (F.) was found in some hotels in Bangkok, Chonburi, Phuket, and Krabi, whereas Cimex lectularius L. was found only in hotels in Chiang Mai. No bedbugs were found in Ubon Ratchathani. The colonized bedbugs showed resistance to groups of insecticides, including organochlorines (dichlorodiphenyl trichloroethane, dieldrin), carbamates (bendiocarb, propoxur), organophosphates (malathion, fenitrothion), and pyrethroids (cyfluthrin, deltamethrin, permethrin, lambda-cyhalothrin, etofenprox) in tests using World Health Organization insecticide-impregnated papers. The new insecticides imidacloprid (neonicotinoid group), chlorfenapyr (pyrrole group), and fipronil (phenylpyrazole group) were effective against the bedbugs; however, organophosphate (diazinon), carbamates (fenobucarb, propoxur), and pyrethroids (bifenthrin, cypermethrin, esfenvalerate, etofenprox) were ineffective. Aerosols containing various pyrethroid insecticides with two to four different active ingredients were effective against the bedbugs. The results obtained from this study suggested that both species of bedbugs in Thailand have developed marked resistance to various groups of insecticides, especially those in the pyrethroid group, which are the most common insecticides used for pest control. Therefore, an integrated pest management should be implemented for managing bedbugs in Thailand.	1	pesticide
21950599	Photoreduction of chlorothalonil fungicide on plant leaf models.	Photodegradation is seldom considered at the surface of vegetation after crop spraying. Chlorothalonil, a broad-spectrum foliar fungicide with a very widespread use worldwide, was considered. To represent the waxy upper layer of leaves, tests were performed within thin paraffin wax films or in n-heptane. Laser flash photolysis together with steady-state irradiation in n-heptane allowed the determination of the photodegradation mechanisms Chlorothalonil ability to produce singlet oxygen was measured; noteworthy its efficiency is close to 100%. Additionally, chlorothalonil photodegradation mainly proceeds through reductive dechlorination. In these hydrophobic media, a radical mechanism was evidenced. Photochemical tests on wax films under simulated solar light show that formulated chlorothalonil is more reactive than pure chlorothalonil. The field-extrapolated half-life of photolysis on vegetation was estimated to 5.3 days. This value was compared to the half-lives of penetration and volatilization available in the literature. It appears that chlorothalonil dissipation from crops is ruled by both photodegradation and penetration. The relative importance of the two paths probably depends on meteorological factors and on physicochemical characteristics of the crop leaf cuticle.	1	pesticide
21952964	Cage and field assessments of Beauveria bassiana-based Mycoinsecticides for Myzus persicae Sulzer (Hemiptera: Aphididae) control in cabbage.	The efficiency of formulated Beauveria bassiana-based mycoinsecticides to control Myzus persicae (Sulzer) in cabbage was assessed under field conditions. Aqueous conidial suspensions (0.01% Tween 80 + 0.01% v/v Agral) of three fungal isolates were sprayed twice at different dates, each with 2.0 x 10(9) viable conidia per potted plant using screened cages. The number of nymphs and adults of M. persicae per leaf was significantly reduced in plots treated with isolates CG 864 and PL 63, with control efficiency ranging from 57% to 60%. Further field trials using screened cages with isolate CG 864 formulated as oil dispersion reduced the aphid population by 85-87% as compared to the control, whereas a 71% reduction was seen in plants treated with the aqueous conidial suspension 20 days following the first spray. The last experiment was conducted in a commercial cabbage field (without cages), in which the fungus was applied at three different dates, each with an equivalent of 1.0 x 10(13) viable conidia/ha. The reduction in the number of aphids per leaf was more evident between four and five weeks following the first spray, resulting in 76-83% and 57-65% control efficiency for oil dispersions and unformulated conidia, respectively. However, with the exception of imidacloprid-treated plants, rapid aphid re-infestation was observed in all treatments. In this study, the stand-alone use of mycoinsecticides for aphid control was not a satisfactory strategy, although utilization of B. bassiana in IPM strategies remains a field to be explored.	1	pesticide
21978582	Organo/layered double hydroxide nanohybrids used to remove non ionic pesticides.	The preparation and characterization of organo/layered double hydroxide nanohybrids with dodecylsulfate and sebacate as interlayer anion were studied in detail. The aim of the modification of the layered double hydroxides (LDHs) was to change the hydrophilic character of the interlayer to hydrophobic to improve the ability of the nanohybrids to adsorb non-ionic pesticides such as alachlor and metolachlor from water. Adsorption tests were conducted on organo/LDHs using variable pH values, contact times and initial pesticide concentrations (adsorption isotherms) in order to identify the optimum conditions for the intended purpose. Adsorbents and adsorption products were characterized several physicochemical techniques. The adsorption test showed that a noticeable increase of the adsorption of the non-ionic herbicides was produced. Based on the results, the organo/LDHs could be good adsorbents to remove alachlor and metolachlor from water. Different organo/LDHs complexes were prepared by a mechanical mixture and by adsorption. The results show that HTSEB-based complex displays controlled release properties that reduce metolachlor leaching in soil columns compared to a technical product and the other formulations. The release was dependent on the nature of the adsorbent used to prepare the complexes. Thus, it can be concluded that organo/LDHs might act as suitable supports for the design of pesticide slow release formulations with the aim of reducing the adverse effects derived from rapid transport losses of the chemical once applied to soils.	1	pesticide
21980859	[Application of the quechers method coupled with gas chromatography with electron capture detection (GC-ECD) in analysis of pesticide residues in food].	"In 2003 Anastassiades and Lehotay described the ""quick, easy, cheap, effective, rugged and safe"" (QuEChERS) method for the multi-class, multiresidue analysis of pesticides in fruit and vegetables. The QuEChERS method allows to obtain high quality results with a minimum number of steps and a low solvent and glassware consumption. The QuEChERS method based on liquid-liquid partitioning with acetonitrile followed by a cleanup step with dispersive-SPE (Solid Phase Extraction). The aim of this study was to check the usefulness of the QuEChERS method coupled with gas chromatography with electron capture detection (GC-ECD) in analysis of pesticide residues in food. Ready-to-use QuEChERS reagents kits and own-weighed reagents have been applied. In recovery experiment for 15 selected pesticides, three matrices belonging to different groups--carrots (high carotenoids content), raspberry (highly acidic matrix) and tomatoes (high water content)--have been used, according to the SANC0/10684/2009 guideline and PN-EN 15662:2008 requirements. Fourteen compounds showed a recovery in the range of 70-120% and only one compound (trifluralin in raspberry) presented a recovery lower than 70% at the 0.5 mg/kg fortification level. The repeatability was satisfying with a RSD lower than 20% apart from trifluralin in raspberry (27.16%)."	1	pesticide
21983245	Potential of two new oximes in reactivate human acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase inhibited by organophosphate compounds: an in vitro study.	Organophosphate (OP) compounds exert inhibition on cholinesterase (ChE) activity by irreversibly binding to the catalytic site of the enzyme. Oximes are compounds generally used to reverse the ChE inhibition caused by OP agents. In this study, we compared the in vitro reactivation potency of two new oximes (oxime 1: butane-2,3-dionethiosemicarbazone; oxime 2: 3-(phenylhydrazono) butan-2-one) against the inhibition on acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) activities induced by chlorpyrifos, diazinon and malathion. Oximes used clinically (obidoxime and pralidoxime) were used as positive control. For this study, human blood (erythrocytes for AChE determination and plasma for BChE determination) was used and different concentrations of oximes (1-100 μM) were tested. The concentrations of OP used were based on the IC50 for AChE and BChE. Results demonstrated that obidoxime was more effective in reactivate the AChE inhibition induced by OP compounds. However, both newly developed oximes achieved similar reactivations rates that pralidoxime for chlorpyrifos and diazinon-inhibited AChE. For BChE reactivation, none of evaluated oximes achieved positives rates of reactivation, been obidoxime able to reactivate malathion-inhibited BChE only in 24% at the highest concentration. We conclude that both newly developed oximes seem to be promising reactivators of OP-inhibited AChE.	1	pesticide
21996259	Esterases activity in the axolotl Ambystoma mexicanum exposed to chlorpyrifos and its implication to motor activity.	The axolotl Ambystoma mexicanum is a neotenic salamander considered a good biological model due to its ability to regenerate limbs, tail, brain and heart cells. Nevertheless, severe reduction of A. mexicanum wild populations in the lacustrine area of Xochimilco, the natural habitat of the axolotl, could be related to several environmental pressures as the presence of organophosphate pesticides (OPPs), intensively applied in agricultural activities in Xochimilco. Thus the aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of environmentally realistic chlorpyrifos (CPF) concentrations, a OPP commonly used in this zone, on esterases activity (acetylcholinesterase and carboxylesterase) and bioconcentration of CPF and to relate them with the motor activity of A. mexicanum juveniles. Axolotls were exposed 48 h to 0.05 and 0.1mg CPF/L, and the responses were evaluated at the end of the CPF exposure. Results suggest that CPF is bioconcentrated into axolotls and that the CPF internal concentrations are related with the observed inhibition activity of AChE (>50%) and CbE (≈ 50%). CPF concentration responsible of the inhibition of the 50% of AChE activity (IC50) was estimated in 0.04 mg CPF/L; however IC50 for CbE activity was not possible to calculate since inhibition levels were lower than 50%, results that suggest a higher resistance of CbE enzymatic activity to CPF. However, motor activity was a more sensitive endpoint to CPF poisoning since time that axolotls spent active and walking, frequency and speed of swimming, frequency of prey attack were reduced >90% of control groups. The motor activity alterations in the axolotl could be related with the registered esterases inhibition. Thus important alterations on axolotls were identified even at short time and low concentrations of CPF exposure. Also, it was possible to link biochemical responses as esterases activity with higher levels of biological organization as behavior. This study provides tools for the regulation of the use of organophosphorus pesticides in the natural habitat of the axolotl.	1	pesticide
22012874	Effects of low-dose exposure to pesticide mixture on physiological responses of the Pacific oyster, Crassostrea gigas.	"This study investigated the effects on the physiology of Pacific oyster, Crassostrea gigas, of a mixture of pesticides containing 0.8 μg L(-1) alachlor, 0.6 μg L(-1) metolachlor, 0.7 μg L(-1) atrazine, 0.6 μg L(-1) terbuthylazine, 0.5 μg L(-1) diuron, 0.6 μg L(-1) fosetyl aluminum, 0.05 μg L(-1) carbaryl, and 0.7 μg L(-1) glyphosate for a total concentration of 4.55 μg L(-1) . The total nominal concentration of pesticides mixture corresponds to the pesticide concentrations in the shellfish culture area of the Marennes-Oleron basin. Two varieties of C. gigas were selected on the foreshore, based on their characteristics in terms of resistance to summer mortality, to assess the effects of the pesticide mixture after 7 days of exposure under controlled conditions. The early effects of the mixture were assessed using enzyme biomarkers of nitrogen metabolism (GS, glutamine synthetase), detoxification metabolism (GST, glutathione S-transferase), and oxidative stress (CAT, catalase). Sublethal effects on hemocyte parameters (phagocytosis and esterase activity) and DNA damages (DNA adducts) were also measured. Changes in metabolic activities were characterized by increases in GS, GST, and CAT levels on the first day of exposure for the ""resistant"" oysters and after 3-7 days of exposure for the ""susceptible"" oysters. The formation of DNA adducts was detected after 7 days of exposure. The percentage of hemocyte esterase-positive cells was reduced in the resistant oysters, as was the hemocyte phagocytic capacity in both oyster varieties after 7 days of exposure to the pesticide mixture. This study highlights the need to consider the low doses and the mixture of pesticides to evaluate the effects of these molecules on organisms."	1	pesticide
22024239	Chronic impairments in spatial learning and memory in rats previously exposed to chlorpyrfos or diisopropylfluorophosphate.	The acute toxicity of organophosphates (OPs) has been studied extensively; however, much less attention has been given to the subject of repeated exposures that are not associated with overt signs of toxicity (i.e., subthreshold exposures). The objective of this study was to determine if the protracted spatial learning impairments we have observed previously after repeated subthreshold exposures to the insecticide chlorpyrifos (CPF) or the alkylphosphate OP, diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP) persisted for longer periods after exposure. Male Wistar rats (beginning at two months of age) were initially injected subcutaneously with CPF (10.0 or 18.0mg/kg) or DFP (0.25 or 0.75 mg/kg) every other day for 30 days. After an extended OP-free washout period (behavioral testing begun 50 days after the last OP exposure), rats previously exposed to CPF, but not DFP, were impaired in a radial arm maze (RAM) win-shift task as well as a delayed non-match to position procedure. Later experiments (i.e., beginning 140 days after the last OP exposure) revealed impairments in the acquisition of a water maze hidden platform task associated with both OPs. However, only rats previously exposed to DFP were impaired in a second phase of testing when the platform location was changed (indicative of deficits of cognitive flexibility). These results indicate, therefore, that repeated, subthreshold exposures to CPF and DFP may lead to chronic deficits in spatial learning and memory (i.e., long after cholinesterase inhibition has abated) and that insecticide and alkylphosphate-based OPs may have differential effects depending on the cognitive domain evaluated.	1	pesticide
22035558	Characterization of selected organo-nitrogen herbicides in South Florida canals: exposure and risk assessments.	Much uncertainty exists regarding the discharge characteristics of terrestrial-use herbicides into aquatic systems. This study evaluated the temporal distribution and concentrations of five commonly used herbicides (atrazine, bromacil, metolachlor, norflurazon, and simazine) in a typical South Florida watershed. Surface water samples were collected weekly over a 3-yr period from four canals and Ten Mile Creek. These systems received drainage water from a variety of land-uses, including residential, pastures, and citrus production. Herbicides were extracted and analyzed by GC-MS/SIM. Atrazine was most frequently detected (87% of samples) in the canal serving the residentially developed sub-basin, with median and maximum concentrations of 0.43 and 6.67 μg L(-1), respectively. Norflurazon was most frequently detected (90-95% of samples) in the systems serving agricultural production areas, with median and maximum concentrations ranging from 0.37-0.63 μg L(-1) and 1.98-6.97 μg L(-1), respectively. Bromacil was detected in 14-36% of samples with median and maximum concentrations ranging from 0.50-0.67 μg L(-1) and 2.31-4.96 μg L(-1), respectively. Metolachlor was detected in 1.8-10% of the samples, with median and maximum concentrations ranging from 0.16-0.2 μgL(-1) and 0.17-1.55 μg L(-1), respectively. Simazine was detected in 10-35% of the samples, with median and maximum concentrations ranging from 0.18-0.28 μg L(-1) and 0.37-1.35 μg L(-1), respectively. Bromacil+norflurazon was the most commonly detected (240 samples of 1060 total) binary combination of herbicides; whereas bromacil+norflurazon+simazine was the most frequently detected tertiary combination (58 samples). While detectable concentrations were present for significant periods of time, risks of acute toxicity were relatively low; affecting <1% of the potentially affected fraction (PAF) of plant species based on 90th centile exposure concentrations and 10th centile effects concentrations from species sensitivity distributions.	1	pesticide
22045616	Assessing environmental contamination around obsolete pesticide stockpiles in West Africa: using the Nile monitor (Varanus niloticus) as a sentinel species.	Environmental contamination caused by obsolete pesticide stocks was assessed using the Nile monitor (Varanus niloticus) as a sentinel species. Organochlorines and organophosphates were quantified by gas chromatography in abdominal fat and the liver, respectively. Results were compared to those obtained from three other sites, characterized by different histories of contamination. None of the previously stocked pesticides were recovered. Low to moderate levels of 4,4'-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (4,4'-DDE) were quantified in monitors from all sites. Malathion and 4,4'-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane (4,4'-DDD) also were detected sporadically. Interindividual variability was substantial. Correlations between pesticide loads and individual characteristics were considered. The nondetection of previously stocked pesticides in the monitors' tissues, their contamination by other pesticides, and the value of V. niloticus as a monitoring tool for environmental contamination are discussed. The results indicate a situation of low concern and draw attention to the importance of local conditions in determining environmental dangers associated with potential pollution sources.	1	pesticide
22066183	Lethal and sublethal toxicity of fipronil and imidacloprid on Psyttalia concolor (Hymenoptera: Braconidae).	Psyttalia concolor (Szèpligeti) (Hymenoptera: Braconidae) is a koinobiont endoparasitoid of several species of tephritid (Diptera) larvae, such as Bactrocera oleae (Gmelin) and Ceratitis capitata (Wiedemann). Here, we report on the effects of imidacloprid and fipronil on P. concolor females, when different routes of exposure were evaluated: residual contact (cover and bait sprays) and via treatment of host species. Moreover, the persistence of the bait formulated compound also was studied. For each experiment, lethal (mortality) and sublethal effects (parasitization rate or longevity) were studied. Fipronil produced 100% mortality irrespective of exposure route, and it was very persistent, because 34-d-old residues still produced this high mortality rate, being as toxic or even more toxic than the reference product dimethoate. Toxicity of imidacloprid depends on the mode of exposure, although always remained less toxic than dimethoate. Imidacloprid caused high mortality or sublethal effect to the progeny in cover sprays and when applied via treated host, being harmless in bait sprays application. In conclusion, our results suggest that fipronil should not be used in the field when the parasitoid is present. On the contrary, although imidacloprid is physiologically active against females of P. concolor, ecological selectivity may result through the use of bait treatment.	1	pesticide
22078267	Phyt'Eaux Cités: application and validation of a programme to reduce surface water contamination with urban pesticides.	This paper presents first results of Phyt'Eaux Cités, a program put in place by the local water supply agency, the SEDIF (Syndicat des Eaux d'Ile-de-France), in collaboration with 73 local authorities, private societies and institutional offices (365 km(2)). The challenges included: measurement of the previous surface water contamination, control of urban pesticide applications, prevention of pesticide hazard on users and finally a overall reduction of surface water contamination. An inquiry on urban total pesticide amount was coupled with a surface water bi-weekly monitoring to establish the impact of more than 200 molecules upon the Orge River. For 2007, at least 4400 kg and 92 type of pesticides (essentially herbicides) were quantified for all urban users in the Phyt'Eaux Cités perimeter. At the outlet of the Orge River (bi-weekly sampling in 2007), 11 molecules were always detected above 0.1 μg L(-1). They displayed the mainly urban origin of pesticide surface water contamination. Amitrole, AMPA (Aminomethyl Phosphonic Acid), demethyldiuron, diuron, glyphosate and atrazine were quantified with a 100% of frequency in 2007 and 2008 at the Orge River outlet. During the year, peaks of contamination were also registered for MCCP, 2,4 MCPA, 2,4 D, triclopyr, dichlorprop, diflufènican, active substances used in large amount in the urban area. However, some other urban molecules, such as isoxaben or flazasulfuron, were detected with low frequency. During late spring and summer, contamination patterns and load were dominated by glyphosate, amitrole and diuron, essentially applied by cities and urban users. Both isoproturon and chlortoluron were quantified during autumn and winter months according to upstream agricultural practices. In conclusion, 3 years after the beginning of this programme, the cities reduced the use of 68% of the total pesticide amount. An improvement on surface water quality was found from 2008 and during 2009 for all pesticides. In particular, glyphosate showed a decrease of the load above 60% in 2008, partly related to the Phyt'Eaux Cités action.	1	pesticide
22098457	Effect of antimicrobial residues on early adhesion and biofilm formation by wild-type and benzalkonium chloride-adapted Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	Antimicrobial residue deposition can change the physico-chemical properties of bacteria and surfaces and thus promote or impair bacterial adhesion. This study focuses on benzalkonium chloride (BC) deposition on polystyrene (PS) surfaces and the influence of this conditioning film on the physico-chemical properties of PS and on early adhesion and biofilm formation by Pseudomonas aeruginosa wild-type and its laboratory BC-adapted strain. The latter readily acquired the ability to grow in BC, and also exhibited physico-chemical surface changes. The existence of residues on PS surfaces altered their hydrophobicity and favoured adhesion as determined by the free energy and early adhesion characterization. Adapted bacteria revealed a higher ability to adhere to surfaces and to develop biofilms, especially on BC-conditioned surfaces, which thereby could enhance resistance to sanitation attempts. These findings highlight the importance of investigations concerning the antimicrobial deposition effect after cleaning procedures, which may encourage bacterial adhesion, especially of bacteria that have been previously exposed to chemical stresses.	1	pesticide
22110757	Exploring mechanisms of multiple insecticide resistance in a population of the malaria vector Anopheles funestus in Benin.	BACKGROUND: The insecticide resistance status of the malaria vector Anopheles funestus and the underlying resistance mechanisms remain uncharacterised in many parts of Africa, notably in Benin, West Africa. To fill this gap in our knowledge, we assessed the susceptibility status of a population of this species in Pahou, Southern Benin and investigated the potential resistance mechanisms. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: WHO bioassays revealed a multiple resistance profile for An. funestus in Pahou. This population is highly resistant to DDT with no mortality in females after 1h exposure to 4%DDT. Resistance was observed against the Type I pyrethroid permethrin and the carbamate bendiocarb. A moderate resistance was detected against deltamethrin (type II pyrethroids). A total susceptibility was observed against malathion, an organophosphate. Pre-exposure to PBO did not change the mortality rates for DDT indicating that cytochrome P450s play no role in DDT resistance in Pahou. No L1014F kdr mutation was detected but a correlation between haplotypes of two fragments of the Voltage-Gated Sodium Channel gene and resistance was observed suggesting that mutations in other exons may confer the knockdown resistance in this species. Biochemical assays revealed elevated levels of GSTs and cytochrome mono-oxygenases in Pahou. No G119S mutation and no altered acetylcholinesterase gene were detected in the Pahou population. qPCR analysis of five detoxification genes revealed that the GSTe2 is associated to the DDT resistance in this population with a significantly higher expression in DDT resistant samples. A significant over-expression of CYP6P9a and CYP6P9b previously associated with pyrethroid resistance was also seen but at a lower fold change than in southern Africa. CONCLUSION: The multiple insecticide resistance profile of this An. funestus population in Benin shows that more attention should be paid to this important malaria vector for the implementation and management of current and future malaria vector control programs in this country.	1	pesticide
22115631	Monitoring of systemic exposure to plant protection products and DNA damage in orchard workers.	The systemic exposure of plum tree growers and operators to plant protection products (PPPs) and effects on DNA were assessed. Specifically, a GC-MS/MS method was developed and validated for the analysis of serum samples for the presence of seven active substances of PPPs. The analytical results verified the presence of myclobutanil, propargite, cypermethrin and deltamethrin in 7 out of 19 serum samples. The incidence of DNA damage was monitored using the single cell electrophoresis assay (comet assay). A paired Student's t-test revealed a statistically significant increase of SSBs in the blood samples collected at the end of the cropping period as compared to the samples collected from the same subjects before the start of PPPs application period. Moreover, the group of seven subjects with detectable serum pesticides levels revealed statistically significant increase of SSBs as compared to the group of subjects with no detectable PPP levels. The results of the present study demonstrate that the agriculture workers may exhibit detectable level of systemic exposure to the applied PPPs which are correlated to increased DNA damage during the cultivation period.	1	pesticide
22128536	Preparation and characterization of a lipoid adsorption material and its atrazine removal performance.	A novel adsorbent named lipoid adsorption material (LAM), with a hydrophobic nucleolus (triolein) and a hydrophilic membrane structure (polyamide), was synthesized to remove hydrophobic organic chemicals (HOCs) from solution. Triolein, a type of lipoid, was entrapped by the polyamide membrane through an interfacial polymerization reaction. The method of preparation and the structure of the LAM were investigated and subsequent experiments were conducted to determine the characteristics of atrazine (a type of HOC) removal from wastewater using LAM as the adsorbent. The results showed that LAM had a regular structure compared with the prepolymer, where compact particles were linked with each other and openings were present in the structure of the LAM in which the fat drops formed from triolein were entrapped. In contrast to the atrazine adsorption behavior of powdered activated carbon (PAC), LAM showed a persistent adsorption capacity for atrazine when initial concentrations of 0.57, 1.12, 8.31 and 19.01 mg/L were present, and the equilibrium time was 12 hr. Using an 8 mg/L initial concentration of atrazine as an indicator of HOCs in aqueous solution, experiments on the adsorption capacity of the LAM showed 69.3% removal within 6-12 hr contact time, which was close to the 75.5% removal of atrazine by PAC. Results indicated that LAM has two atrazine removal mechanisms, namely the bioaccumulation of atrazine by the nucleous material and physical adsorption to the LAM membrane. Bioaccumulation was the main removal mechanism.	1	pesticide
22137903	Triazine residues in raw milk and infant formulas from Spanish northwest, by a diphasic dialysis extraction.	Residue levels of herbicides (triazines) were determined in milk by a new and sensitive analytical method. A total of 312 samples were collected (70 infant formulas and 242 raw milk) biweekly during a 24-month period. A method is reported for the analysis of triazine with extraction by diphasic dialysis and determination by gas chromatography with nitrogen-phosphorus detection (CG/NPD) and by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS) to confirm positive results. Detection limits (LODs) were 0.01 mg/l for terbuthylazine, 0.07 mg/l for simazine and 0.04 mg/l for atrazine by CG/NPD. Optimal extraction was obtained with dichloromethane at 34 °C, and stirring at 200 rpm for 4 h. This extraction method improves recovery by up to 89% for terbuthylazine, 75% for simazine and 116% for atrazine. The frequency of total samples containing triazine residues was 12.50%; considering, separately, raw milk and infant formulas, this percentage was 16.11% and 5.71%, respectively. Finally, because one sample contained triazine levels slightly higher than established MRLs and owing to the known effects of these contaminants on infants health and development, urgent actions are needed for monitoring and controlling of the level of contamination in infant formula which not exceeds tolerable limit recommended by European and Spanish legislation.	1	pesticide
22145949	American dippers indicate contaminant biotransport by Pacific salmon.	Migrating salmon can increase productivity in Pacific Northwestern streams and lakes through the deposition of nutrients from their decomposing carcasses after spawning. Several studies also report simultaneous biotransport of persistent organic pollutants that have contaminated lake food webs, although no similar effect has been shown conclusively in rivers. We tested the prediction that salmon enhance contaminants in river food webs using the American dipper (Cinclus mexicanus), an aquatic songbird and a recognized indicator of stream quality. Over 3 years, we analyzed 29 dipper eggs and aquatic invertebrate samples from 14 different rivers in 10 catchments in southern British Columbia, Canada to assess whether variations in autumn spawning density of Pacific salmon were reflected in dipper egg contamination or stable carbon and nitrogen isotopes. δ(13)C isotope signatures, but not δ(15)N, in aquatic invertebrates and dipper eggs increased among catchments in proportion to the average density of spawning salmon. Concentrations of brominated flame retardants (PBDEs), dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane metabolites (DDTs), and chlordane compounds were related in part to the δ(13)C measure of salmon density, but mercury, chlorobenzenes, and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) were explained better by dipper trophic level. We conclude that spawning Pacific salmon result in the increased availability of salmon fry as dipper prey and salmon are a significant source of PBDEs, DDTs, and chlordanes to river ecosystems. However, contrary to lake studies, postspawn concentrations of legacy PCBs in river birds, even in salmon-rich rivers, were not significantly higher than would be expected from atmospheric deposition alone. We recommend using δ(13)C isotopes to trace salmon-derived lipids which may persist over winter particularly in rivers, and are potentially a better reflection of lipophilic contaminant transfer.	1	pesticide
22177544	Head lice and the use of spinosad.	BACKGROUND: Head lice infestations are responsible for social and economic distress. Despite a reported increase in resistance, permethrin 1% is still the first-line treatment of head lice. Alternative topical pediculicidal agents include malathion and benzyl alcohol, but resistance is of growing concern. In 2011, a new pediculicide, spinosad, was introduced. OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to review the clinical pharmacology, efficacy, tolerability, and current place in therapy of spinosad for the treatment of head lice. METHODS: Pertinent articles and abstracts were identified through searches of MEDLINE/Ebsco and MEDLINE/Ovid from 1948 to September 2011 and International Pharmaceutical Abstracts from 1966 to September 2011. RESULTS: Two reports described 3 trials of spinosad used for the treatment of head lice. One study (n = 120) demonstrated efficacy of both spinosad 0.5% and spinosad 1% compared with placebo, with 82.5% and 86.1% of patients free of live lice 14 days after treatment, respectively, compared with 25.6% in the placebo group (P < 0.001 for each treatment). The difference between the spinosad 0.5% and 1% treatment groups was not significant. Two trials (n = 1038) comparing spinosad 0.9% with permethrin 1% reported greater efficacy for spinosad with absence of live lice 14 days after 1 or 2 treatments for 84.6% and 86.7%, respectively, of primary cases compared with 44.9% and 42.9% with permethrin (P < 0.001 for both studies). The most common reported adverse events were eye and scalp irritation, but they were not statistically significant (P = 0.329 and P = 0.395, respectively). Only application-site erythema reactions showed statistical significance, with 6.8% in the permethrin group versus 3.1% in the spinosad group (P = 0.007). CONCLUSIONS: Although limited, the available literature suggests that spinosad is an effective and well-tolerated agent for the treatment of head lice. In a time of increasing resistance, spinosad has demonstrated superior performance compared with permethrin. A review of the literature did not identify any studies comparing spinosad to benzyl alcohol 5% or malathion 0.5%.	1	pesticide
22179196	Seeds of a possible natural hybrid between herbicide-resistant Brassica napus and Brassica rapa detected on a riverbank in Japan.	Transgenic herbicide-resistant varieties of Brassica napus, or oilseed rape, from which canola oil is obtained, are imported into Japan, where this plant is not commercially cultivated to a large extent. This study aimed to examine the distribution of herbicide-resistant B. napus and transgene flow to escaped populations of its closely related species, B. rapa and B. juncea. Samples were collected from 12 areas near major ports through which oilseed rape imports into Japan passed--Kashima, Chiba, Yokohama, Shimizu, Nagoya, Yokkaichi, Sakai-Senboku, Kobe, Uno, Mizushima, Kita-Kyushu, and Hakata--and the presence of glyphosate- and/or glufosinate-resistant B. napus was confirmed in all areas except Yokohama, Sakai-Senboku, Uno, and Kita-Kyushu. The Yokkaichi area was the focus because several herbicide-resistant B. napus plants were detected not only on the roadside where oilseed rape spilled during transportation but also on the riverbanks, where escaped populations of B. rapa and B. juncea grew. Samples of B. napus that were tolerant to both herbicides were detected in four continuous years (2005-2008) in this area, suggesting the possibility of intraspecific transgene flow within the escaped B. napus populations. Moreover, in 2008, seeds of a possible natural hybrid between herbicide-tolerant B. napus (2n = 38) and B. rapa (2n = 20) were detected; some seedlings derived from the seeds collected at a Yokkaichi site showed glyphosate resistance and had 2n = 29 chromosomes. This observation strongly suggests the occurrence of hybridization between herbicide-resistant B. napus and escaped B. rapa and the probability of introgression of a herbicide-resistance gene into related escaped species.	1	pesticide
22200534	A glyphosate-based herbicide induces necrosis and apoptosis in mature rat testicular cells in vitro, and testosterone decrease at lower levels.	The major herbicide used worldwide, Roundup, is a glyphosate-based pesticide with adjuvants. Glyphosate, its active ingredient in plants and its main metabolite (AMPA) are among the first contaminants of surface waters. Roundup is being used increasingly in particular on genetically modified plants grown for food and feed that contain its residues. Here we tested glyphosate and its formulation on mature rat fresh testicular cells from 1 to 10000ppm, thus from the range in some human urine and in environment to agricultural levels. We show that from 1 to 48h of Roundup exposure Leydig cells are damaged. Within 24-48h this formulation is also toxic on the other cells, mainly by necrosis, by contrast to glyphosate alone which is essentially toxic on Sertoli cells. Later, it also induces apoptosis at higher doses in germ cells and in Sertoli/germ cells co-cultures. At lower non toxic concentrations of Roundup and glyphosate (1ppm), the main endocrine disruption is a testosterone decrease by 35%. The pesticide has thus an endocrine impact at very low environmental doses, but only a high contamination appears to provoke an acute rat testicular toxicity. This does not anticipate the chronic toxicity which is insufficiently tested, and only with glyphosate in regulatory tests.	1	pesticide
22218173	A hydrological modeling framework for defining achievable performance standards for pesticides.	"This paper proposes a hydrological modeling framework to define achievable performance standards (APSs) for pesticides that could be attained after implementation of recommended management actions, agricultural practices, and available technologies (i.e., beneficial management practices [BMPs]). An integrated hydrological modeling system, Gestion Intégrée des Bassins versants à l'aide d'un Système Informatisé, was used to quantify APSs for six Canadian watersheds for eight pesticides: atrazine, carbofuran, dicamba, glyphosate, MCPB, MCPA, metolachlor, and 2,4-D. Outputs from simulation runs to predict pesticide concentration under current conditions and in response to implementation of two types of beneficial management practices (reduced pesticide application rate and 1- to 10-m-wide edge-of-field and/or riparian buffer strips, implemented singly or in combination) showed that APS values for scenarios with BMPs were less than those for current conditions. Moreover, APS values at the outlet of watersheds were usually less than ecological thresholds of good condition, when available. Upstream river reaches were at greater risk of having concentrations above a given ecological thresholds because of limited stream flows and overland loads of pesticides. Our integrated approach of ""hydrological modeling-APS estimation-ecotoxicological significance"" provides the most effective interpretation possible, for management and education purposes, of the potential biological impact of predicted pesticide concentrations in rivers."	1	pesticide
22242119	Genome analysis of cytochrome P450s and their expression profiles in insecticide resistant mosquitoes, Culex quinquefasciatus.	Here we report a study of the 204 P450 genes in the whole genome sequence of larvae and adult Culex quinquefasciatus mosquitoes. The expression profiles of the P450 genes were compared for susceptible (S-Lab) and resistant mosquito populations, two different field populations of mosquitoes (HAmCq and MAmCq), and field parental mosquitoes (HAmCq(G0) and MAmCq(G0)) and their permethrin selected offspring (HAmCq(G8) and MAmCq(G6)). While the majority of the P450 genes were expressed at a similar level between the field parental strains and their permethrin selected offspring, an up- or down-regulation feature in the P450 gene expression was observed following permethrin selection. Compared to their parental strains and the susceptible S-Lab strain, HAmCq(G8) and MAmCq(G6) were found to up-regulate 11 and 6% of total P450 genes in larvae and 7 and 4% in adults, respectively, while 5 and 11% were down-regulated in larvae and 4 and 2% in adults. Although the majority of these up- and down-regulated P450 genes appeared to be developmentally controlled, a few were either up- or down-regulated in both the larvae and adult stages. Interestingly, a different gene set was found to be up- or down-regulated in the HAmCq(G8) and MAmCq(G6) mosquito populations in response to insecticide selection. Several genes were identified as being up- or down-regulated in either the larvae or adults for both HAmCq(G8) and MAmCq(G6); of these, CYP6AA7 and CYP4C52v1 were up-regulated and CYP6BY3 was down-regulated across the life stages and populations of mosquitoes, suggesting a link with the permethrin selection in these mosquitoes. Taken together, the findings from this study indicate that not only are multiple P450 genes involved in insecticide resistance but up- or down-regulation of P450 genes may also be co-responsible for detoxification of insecticides, insecticide selection, and the homeostatic response of mosquitoes to changes in cellular environment.	1	pesticide
22266476	DNA damage in fish (Anguilla anguilla) exposed to a glyphosate-based herbicide -- elucidation of organ-specificity and the role of oxidative stress.	Organophosphate herbicides are among the most dangerous agrochemicals for the aquatic environment. In this context, Roundup(®), a glyphosate-based herbicide, has been widely detected in natural water bodies, representing a potential threat to non-target organisms, namely fish. Thus, the main goal of the present study was to evaluate the genotoxic potential of Roundup(®) in the teleost fish Anguilla anguilla, addressing the possible causative involvement of oxidative stress. Fish were exposed to environmentally realistic concentrations of this herbicide (58 and 116 μgL(-1)) during one or three days. The standard procedure of the comet assay was applied to gill and liver cells in order to determine organ-specific genetic damage. Since liver is a central organ in xenobiotic metabolism, nucleoids of hepatic cells were also incubated with a lesion-specific repair enzyme (formamidopyrimidine DNA glycosylase - FPG), in order to recognise oxidised purines. Antioxidants were determined in both organs as indicators of pro-oxidant state. In general, both organs displayed an increase in DNA damage for the two Roundup(®) concentrations and exposure times, although liver showed to be less susceptible to the lower concentration. The enzyme-modified comet assay showed the occurrence of FPG-sensitive sites in liver only after a 3-day exposure to the higher Roundup(®) concentration. The antioxidant defences were in general unresponsive, despite a single increment of catalase activity in gills (116 μgL(-1), 3-day) and a decrease of superoxide dismutase activity in liver (58 μgL(-1), 3-day). Overall, the mechanisms involved in Roundup(®)-induced DNA strand-breaks showed to be similar in both organs. Nevertheless, it was demonstrated that the type of DNA damage varies with the concentration and exposure duration. Hence, after 1-day exposure, an increase on pro-oxidant state is not a necessary condition for the induction of DNA-damaging effects of Roundup(®). By increasing the duration of exposure to three days, ROS-dependent processes gained preponderance as a mechanism of DNA-damage induction in the higher concentration.	1	pesticide
22299341	Impacts of thiamethoxam seed treatment and host plant resistance on the soybean aphid fungal pathogen, Pandora neoaphidis.	Since the introduction of soybean aphid, Aphis glycines Matsumura, from Asia, insecticide use in soybean has increased substantially in the north central United States. Insecticide seed treatments and aphid resistant soybean varieties are management tactics that may reduce reliance on foliar applications of broad-spectrum insecticides. Exploring potential nontarget impacts of these technologies will be an important step in incorporating them into aphid management programs. We investigated impacts of thiamethoxam seed treatment and Rag1 aphid resistant soybean on a fungal pathogen of soybean aphid, Pandora neoaphidis (Remaudière & Hennebert) Humber, via open plot and cage studies. We found that although thiamethoxam seed treatment did significantly lower aphid pressure in open plots compared with an untreated control, this reduction in aphid density translated into nonsignificant decreases in fungal disease prevalence in aphids. Furthermore, when aphid densities were approximately equal in seed treated and untreated soybean, no impact on aphid fungal disease was observed. In open plots, Rag1 resistant soybean experienced lower aphid pressure and aphid disease prevalence compared with a nonresistant isoline. However, in cages when aphid densities were equivalent in both resistant and susceptible soybean, resistance had no impact on aphid disease prevalence. The addition of thiamethoxam seed treatment to resistant soybean yielded aphid densities and aphid disease prevalence similar to untreated, resistant soybean. These studies provide evidence that thiamethoxam seed treatments and Rag1 resistance can impact P. neoaphidis via decreased aphid densities; however, this impact is minimal, implying use of seed treatments and host plant resistance are compatible with P. neoaphidis.	1	pesticide
22310843	Extraction, cleanup, and chromatographic determination of imidacloprid residues in wheat.	This study presents an improved method for quantitative analysis of imidacloprid residues in wheat grain using high performance liquid chromatography. The study used chromatographic response (in terms of peak height) as a quantitative tool for determination instead of peak area. The peak height of imidacloprid showed a very good linear correlation (R(2) = 0.999) when compared with absolute values at six different concentrations. The limit of detection was found to be 0.01 μg/mL. The recovery of imidacloprid residues in spiked wheat grain at three levels (0.03, 0.05, and 0.1 μg/g) was in the range of 79%-88% with %RSD 5.72 at 0.05 μg/g (w/w) and between 87% and 93% with %RSD 3.55 at 0.1 μg/g (w/w). At 0.03 μg/g (w/w) level, recovery was not within the recommended range of 70%-110%. Therefore, the lowest limit of quantification for this method was found to be 0.05 μg/g.	1	pesticide
22325437	China's water pollution by persistent organic pollutants.	Available data were reviewed to assess the status of contamination by persistent organic pollutants (POPs), including organochlorine pesticides (OCPs), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs), polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs), perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) and perfluorooctanoate (PFOA), in drinking water sources and coastal waters of China. The levels of POPs in China's waters were generally at the high end of the global range. A comparison of China's regulatory limits indicated that PCBs in rivers and coastal water may pose potential human health risk. Occurrence of DDTs in some rivers of China may also pose health risk to humans using the regulatory limits of DDTs recommended by the European Union. Future monitoring of POPs in China's waters should be directed towards analytes of concern (e.g. PCBs and PCDD/Fs) and to fill data gaps for analytes (e.g. PBDEs, PCDD/Fs, and chlordane) and in watersheds/regions (e.g. West China) where data are scarce.	1	pesticide
22331545	Investigate the chronic neurotoxic effects of diquat.	Chronic exposure to agricultural chemicals (pesticides/herbicides) has been shown to induce neurotoxic effects or results in accumulation of various toxic metabolic by-products. These substances have the relevant ability to cause or increase the risk for neurodegeneration. Diquat is an herbicide that has been extensively used in the United States of America and other parts of the world. Diquat is constantly released into the environment during its use as a contact herbicide. Diquat structurally resembles 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6 tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) and paraquat. Rotenone, paraquat, maneb and MPTP reproduce features of movement disorders in experimental animal models. Based on the structural similarity to other neurotoxins, chronic exposure of diquat can induce behavioral and neurochemical alterations associated with dopaminergic neurotoxicity. However, in the present study, diquat unlike other neurotoxins (rotenone, 6-hydroxydopamine, MPTP, paraquat and maneb) did not induce dopamine depletion in the mouse striatum. Although, notable exacerbation in motor impairment (swimming score, akinesia and open field) were evident that may be due to the decreased dopamine turnover and mild nigrostriatal neurodegeneration. These data indicate that, despite the apparent structural similarity to other dopaminergic neurotoxins, diquat did not exert severe deleterious effects on dopamine neurons in a manner that is unique to rotenone and MPTP.	1	pesticide
22365130	Chromogenic platform based on recombinant Drosophila melanogaster acetylcholinesterase for visible unidirectional assay of organophosphate and carbamate insecticide residues.	In this study we propose a chromogenic platform for rapid analysis of organophosphate (OP) and carbamate (CM) insecticide residues, based on recombinant Drosophila melanogaster acetylcholinesterase (R-DmAChE) as enzyme and indoxyl acetate as substrate. The visible chromogenic strip had the advantages identical to those of commonly used lateral flow assays (LFAs) with utmost simplicity in sample loading and result observation. After optimization, depending on the color intensity (CI) values, the well-established assay has the capabilities of both qualitative measurement via naked eyes and quantitative analysis by colorimetric reader with the desirable IC(50) values against the tested six insecticides (0.06 μg mL(-1) of carbofuran, 0.28 μg mL(-1) of methomyl, 0.03 μg mL(-1) of dichlorvos, 31.6 μg mL(-1) of methamidophos, 2.0 μg mL(-1) of monocrotophos, 6.3 μg mL(-1) of omethoate). Acceptable matrix effects and satisfactory detection performance were confirmed by in-parallel LC-MS/MS analysis in different vegetable varieties at various spiked levels of 10(-3) to 10(1) μg g(-1). Overall, the testified suitability and applicability of this novel platform meet the requirements for practical use in food safety management and environmental monitoring, especially in the developing world.	1	pesticide
22367533	Long-term impact of sublethal atrazine perturbs the redox homeostasis in pea (Pisum sativum L.) plants.	Atrazine frequently contaminates soil, groundwater, rivers, and ponds. It is well know that acute doses (1-5 mM) of atrazine induce massive generation of singlet oxygen by blocking photosystem II. The sublethal concentrations of this herbicide, similar to those found in the environment, also reduce growth and disrupt photosynthesis in a long-term aspect, but exact mechanisms remain much uncertain. In this study the effects of environmentally relevant atrazine levels, ranging from 0.1 to 10 μM, on pea plants were characterized for up to 20 days. The plants exposed to continuous influence of atrazine exhibited perturbed redox homeostasis with increases of the lipid peroxides, the total and oxidized glutathione pools and elevated guaiacol peroxidase and glutathione-S-transferase activities. In contrast, the long-term atrazine impact did not affect superoxide dismutase activity whereas the catalase was inhibited. The perturbations of the redox status and the recruitment of the antioxidant machinery imply that the sublethal atrazine concentrations alter the poise between production and scavenging of reactive oxygen species. Taken together these results show that the long-term impact of sublethal atrazine has hallmarks of oxidative stress most probably triggered by generation of singlet oxygen.	1	pesticide
22369932	Glyphosate-induced stiffening of HaCaT keratinocytes, a Peak Force Tapping study on living cells.	The skin is the first physiological barrier, with a complex constitution, that provides defensive functions against multiple physical and chemical aggressions. Glyphosate is an extensively used herbicide that has been shown to increase the risk of cancer. Moreover there is increasing evidence suggesting that the mechanical phenotype plays an important role in malignant transformation. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) has emerged within the last decade as a powerful tool for providing a nanometer-scale resolution imaging of biological samples. Peak Force Tapping (PFT) is a newly released AFM-based investigation technique allowing extraction of chemical and mechanical properties from a wide range of samples at a relatively high speed and a high resolution. The present work uses the PFT technology to investigate HaCaT keratinocytes, a human epidermal cell line, and offers an original approach to study chemically-induced changes in the cellular mechanical properties under near-physiological conditions. These experiments indicate glyphosate induces cell membrane stiffening, and the appearance of cytoskeleton structures at a subcellular level, for low cytotoxic concentrations whereas cells exposed to IC50 (inhibitory concentration 50%) treatment exhibit control-like mechanical behavior despite obvious membrane damages. Quercetin, a well-known antioxidant, reverses the glyphosate-induced mechanical phenotype.	1	pesticide
22372553	Changes of drug metabolizing enzymes in the liver of male sheep exposed to either cypermethrin or dimethoate.	Xenobiotics such as insecticides are metabolized to more or less toxic metabolites by drug-metabolizing enzymes including cytochrome P450 (Cyp P450), cytochrome b5 (Cyp b5), NADPH-cytochrome c reductase (Cyt.c R), N-nitrosdimethylamine-N-demethylase I (NDMA-dI), glutathione (GSH), glutathione s-transferase (GST), and glutathione reductase (GR). Therefore, the present study showed the influence of oral administration of cypermethrin (6 and 12 mg/kg/day) and dimethoate (1.6 and 3.2 mg/kg/day) for 63 consecutive days on the activities of the above mentioned enzymes in the livers of male sheep. Low and high-treatments of sheep with cypermethrin significantly increased the levels of Cyp P450 by 56% and 98%, Cyp b5 by 65% and 80%, GSH by 68% and 74%, and Cyt.c R by 67% and 98%, respectively in a dose-dependent manner. However, low dose of cypermethrin increased the activities of GST and GR by 56% and 91% respectively. In addition, low and high dose-treatments with dimethoate increased the hepatic contents of Cyp P450 by 27% and 40%, GSH by 259% and 132%, whereas NDMA-dI decreased by 27 and 55% respectively, and no change in the content of Cyp b5 and the activity of Cyt.c-R at any given dose of this compound. It is concluded that exposure to cypermethrin and dimethoate significantly changed the hepatic activity of phases I & II drugmetabolizing enzymes in sheep, and these changes are mainly dependent on the administred dose, and also on the type of the tested insecticides. Also, such changes should be considered when therapeutic drugs administered to people exposed to such insecticides.	1	pesticide
22384601	[Induce of laccase from Trametes gallica and its degradation on neutral dyes and organophosphorus pesticides].	The characteristics of the induction of laccase in Trametes gallica under different initial cultural pH, incubation time by different inducers were discussed, as well as the effects of temperature, pH and time on laccase degradation of six dyes and four organophosphors. The results showed that RB-bright blue, ABTS and o-toluidine affected the production of laccase at different levels, and ABTS was the best inductive agent in our test conditions, whose optimal initial pH and incubation time were 4.0 and 13 days, respectively. The appropriate reaction temperature of the laccase produced was 38 degrees C, and it got a good stability, for it could retain 78.6% of the enzyme activity after 20 min holding at 40 degrees C. Mediated by ABTS, the optimal temperature for laccase to degrade the six types of neutral dyes could be divided into two cases, that was 30 degrees C (neutral black, neutral bordeaux, neutral pink, methyl orange) and 60 degrees C (neutral dark yellow, cresol red), the optimal pH were 6.0 (neutral black), 2.0 (neutral bordeaux, neutral pink) and 4.0 (methyl orange, neutral dark yellow, cresol red), respectively, while the optimal times separately were 6 h (methyl orange, neutral dark yellow, cresol red), 12 h (neutral pink) and 24 h (neutral bordeaux). And using the same inductive agent, the best temperature for laccase to degrade dimethoate, chlorpyrifos, trichlorfon and parathion-pyridazine was 25 degrees C, the suitable time was 9 h, and the optimal pH was 10.0 for dimethoate, chlorpyrifos and parathion-pyridazine, and 8.0 for trichlorfon.	1	pesticide
22387602	Oxidative and apoptotic effects of lambda-cyhalothrin modulated by piperonyl butoxide in the liver of Oreochromis niloticus.	The aim of this study was to investigate the toxic effects of pyrethroid pesticide lambda-cyhalothrin in the presence of piperonyl butoxide as a modulator in the liver of juvenile Oreochromis niloticus. LC(50) (96h) value of lambda-cyhalothrin was determined as 2.901μg/L for O. niloticus. The fish were exposed to 0.48μg/L (1/6 of the 96-h LC(50)) lambda-cyhalothrin and 10μg/L piperonyl butoxide for 96-h and 15-d. tGSH, GSH, GSSG, Hsp70 and TBARS contents, GPx, GR, GST and caspase-3 enzymes activities were determined. Lambda-cyhalothrin caused increases in tGSH, GSH, TBARS contents, and GST activity. Piperonyl butoxide treatment with lambda-cyhalothrin caused significant increases in tGSH GSH, Hsp70, TBARS contents, and GPx and GST activities while caspase-3 activity was decreased. The results of the present study revealed that lambda-cyhalothrin caused oxidative stress which upregulated GSH and GSH-related enzymes. Piperonyl butoxide increased the oxidative stress potential and apoptotic effects of lambda-cyhalothrin.	1	pesticide
22396314	Evaluation of neonicotinoid, organophosphate and avermectin trunk injections for the management of avocado thrips in California avocado groves.	BACKGROUND: Trunk injections of systemic insecticides were evaluated for the management of avocado thrips. Insecticide residues were quantified in leaves to determine when after treatment, and for how long, toxic concentrations of the insecticides were present. Residues in fruit were quantified to determine whether trunk injection of insecticides might present a greater risk than traditional application methods for contaminating fruit. RESULTS: Residues of imidacloprid and dinotefuran were at least tenfold higher in leaves when trees were treated via trunk injection compared with soil application. Dinotefuran uptake was more rapid than imidacloprid, and no residues were detected within fruit. Acephate was also mobilized very rapidly and gave good control of thrips in bioassays; however, residues of acephate and its insecticidal metabolite methamidophos were detected in the fruit for up to 4 weeks after injection. Avermectin uptake was very slow, and it was ineffective against avocado thrips. CONCLUSIONS: Trunk injections of acephate and dinotefuran permitted rapid uptake into avocados, and they are strong candidates as control methods for avocado thrips. However, residues of organophosphates in fruit could necessitate increased preharvest intervals. Residues of neonicotinoids were below detection limits in fruit, suggesting that neonicotinoids may be the more suitable control option of the two chemical classes.	1	pesticide
22418650	Pyrethroid insecticides in bed sediments from urban and agricultural streams across the United States.	Pyrethroid insecticides are hydrophobic compounds that partition to streambed sediments and have been shown to cause toxicity to non-target organisms; their occurrence is well documented in parts of California, but there have been limited studies in other urban and agricultural areas across the United States. To broaden geographic understanding of pyrethroid distributions, bed sediment samples were collected and analyzed from 36 streams in 25 states, with about 2/3 of the sites in urban areas and 1/3 in agricultural areas. At least one pyrethroid (of the 14 included in the analysis) was detected in 78% of samples. Seven pyrethroids were detected in one or more samples. Bifenthrin was the most frequently detected (58% of samples), followed by permethrin (31%), resmethrin (17%), and cyfluthrin (14%). The other three detected pyrethroids (cyhalothrin, cypermethrin and delta/tralomethrin) were found in two or fewer of the samples. Concentrations ranged from 0.3 to 180 ng g(-1) dry weight. The number of pyrethroids detected were higher in the urban samples than in the agricultural samples, but the highest concentrations of individual pyrethroids were split between urban and agricultural sites. The pyrethroids detected in the agricultural areas generally followed use patterns. Predicted toxicity was greater for urban areas and attributed to bifenthrin, cyfluthrin and cypermethrin, while in agricultural areas the toxicity was mainly attributed to bifenthrin.	1	pesticide
22423985	Historical trends analysis of 2004 to 2009 toxicity and pesticide data for California's central valley.	"The goals of this study were to conduct temporal trends analysis of 2004-2009 toxicity and pesticide data sets for four Central Valley Water Quality Coalitions in California. The general conclusions from analysis of 6 years of toxicity and pesticide data from these Central Valley Coalitions is that a significant decline has occurred with Ceriodaphnia toxicity, diazinon concentrations and chlorpyrifos concentrations. There was no data to support a significant increase in toxicity or pesticide concentrations from any of the data sets analyzed from 2004 to 2009. In addition, the percent of diazinon and chlorpyrifos samples exceeding water quality objectives of these organophosphate insecticides has also declined significantly from 2004 to 2009. Interpretation of all toxicity and pesticide data used in this analysis within a ""weight of evidence context"" suggests that water quality conditions have generally improved in the Central Valley Region of California from 2004 to 2009."	1	pesticide
22428887	Cytotoxic effect of fenitrothion and lambda-cyhalothrin mixture on lipid peroxidation and antioxidant defense system in rat kidney.	A mixture of pyrethroids plus organophosphates was assessed for their potential effects on lipid peroxidation, the antioxidant defense system and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in rat kidney in vitro. Various insecticide concentrations were incubated with kidney homogenate at 37°C for different incubation times. Treatment with fenitothion (FNT) plus lambda-cyhalothrin (LC) caused a significant induction (P < 0.05) in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), which might be associated to decreased levels of reduced glutathione (GSH), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities and protein content in rat kidney. However, a significant induction of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity was observed. The effect was concentration and time dependent. It can be concluded that depletion of GSH might indicate that reactive oxygen species (ROS) could be involved in the toxic effects of FNT plus LC which lead to marked perturbations in antioxidant defense system.	1	pesticide
22429776	Insecticide susceptibility status of Phlebotomus (Paraphlebotomus) sergenti and Phlebotomus (Phlebotomus) papatasi in endemic foci of cutaneous leishmaniasis in Morocco.	BACKGROUND: In Morocco, cutaneous leishmaniasis is transmitted by Phlebotomus sergenti and Ph. papatasi. Vector control is mainly based on environmental management but indoor residual spraying with synthetic pyrethroids is applied in many foci of Leishmania tropica. However, the levels and distribution of sandfly susceptibility to insecticides currently used has not been studied yet. Hence, this study was undertaken to establish the susceptibility status of Ph. sergenti and Ph. papatasi to lambdacyhalothrin, DDT and malathion. METHODS: The insecticide susceptibility status of Ph. sergenti and Ph. papatasi was assessed during 2011, following the standard WHO technique based on discriminating dosage. A series of twenty-five susceptibility tests were carried out on wild populations of Ph. sergenti and Ph. papatasi collected by CDC light traps from seven villages in six different provinces. Knockdown rates (KDT) were noted at 5 min intervals during the exposure to DDT and to lambdacyhalothrin. After one hour of exposure, sandflies were transferred to the observation tubes for 24 hours. After this period, mortality rate was calculated. Data were analyzed by Probit analysis program to determine the knockdown time 50% and 90% (KDT50 and KDT90) values. RESULTS: Study results showed that Ph.sergenti and Ph. papatasi were susceptible to all insecticides tested. Comparison of KDT values showed a clear difference between the insecticide knockdown effect in studied villages. This effect was lower in areas subject to high selective public health insecticide pressure in the framework of malaria or leishmaniasis control. CONCLUSION: Phlebotomus sergenti and Ph. papatasi are susceptible to the insecticides tested in the seven studied villages but they showed a low knockdown effect in Azilal, Chichaoua and Settat. Therefore, a study of insecticide susceptibility of these vectors in other foci of leishmaniasis is recommended and the level of their susceptibility should be regularly monitored.	1	pesticide
22442753	Parasite-insecticide interactions: a case study of Nosema ceranae and fipronil synergy on honeybee.	In ecosystems, a variety of biological, chemical and physical stressors may act in combination to induce illness in populations of living organisms. While recent surveys reported that parasite-insecticide interactions can synergistically and negatively affect honeybee survival, the importance of sequence in exposure to stressors has hardly received any attention. In this work, Western honeybees (Apis mellifera) were sequentially or simultaneously infected by the microsporidian parasite Nosema ceranae and chronically exposed to a sublethal dose of the insecticide fipronil, respectively chosen as biological and chemical stressors. Interestingly, every combination tested led to a synergistic effect on honeybee survival, with the most significant impacts when stressors were applied at the emergence of honeybees. Our study presents significant outcomes on beekeeping management but also points out the potential risks incurred by any living organism frequently exposed to both pathogens and insecticides in their habitat.	1	pesticide
22458610	Control of large institutional scabies outbreaks.	BACKGROUND: Scabies outbreaks in community facilities may reach large dimensions and take a protracted course. Highly contagious crusted scabies is a major cause of nosocomial outbreaks. PATIENTS AND METHODS: On the occasion of an extensive scabies outbreak in a north Bavarian sheltered workshop and its associated residential homes with over 500 exposed individuals, a multifaceted control strategy was developed and pursued. Knowledge from a comprehensive review of the literature was utilized. RESULTS: Our successful scabies elimination concept includes: 1) Careful organization (formation of an outbreak management team, registration and information of all exposed individuals, prospective time management, financial calculation); 2) simultaneous clinical examination of all individuals at risk; 3) synchronous topical treatment of all exposed individuals with permethrin 5 % cream on day 0, repeated treatment of proven and doubtful cases on days 1 and 14; systemic treatment of selected cases with oral ivermectin; 4) decontamination and quarantine measures; 5) follow-up investigations and repeated treatment if indicated. CONCLUSIONS: Management of large institutional scabies outbreaks requires a high degree of motivation, communication skills and perseverance.	1	pesticide
22476697	A metabolomics based test of independent action and concentration addition using the earthworm Lumbricus rubellus.	A major challenge in ecotoxicology is to understand the effects of multiple toxicants on organisms. Here we assess the effects on survival, weight change, cocoon production and metabolism caused by exposure to two similarly acting (imidacloprid/thiacloprid) and two dissimilarly acting (chlorpyrifos/Nickel) chemicals on the earthworm Lumbricus rubellus. We assessed the standard models of concentration addition (CA) and independent action (IA), in conjunction with a metabolomics based approach to elucidate mechanisms of effect. For imidacloprid and thiacloprid the reproductive effects indicated probable additivity. Although this suggests joint effects through a similar mechanism, metabolite changes for each pesticide actually indicated distinct effects. Further, earthworms exposed to a 0.5 toxic unit equitoxic mixture demonstrated metabolic effects intermediate between those for each pesticide, indicating a non-interactive, independent joint effect. For higher effect level mixtures (1 and 1.5 toxic units), metabolite changes associated with thiacloprid exposure began to dominate. The metabolomic effects of the two dissimilarly acting chemicals were distinct, confirming separate modes of action and both proved more toxic than anticipated from previous studies. In the mixtures, phenotypic effects were in accordance with IA estimates, while metabolite changes were dominated by Ni effects, even though chlorpyrifos contributed most to reproductive toxicity. This could be attributed to the greater systematic effect of Ni when compared to the more specifically acting chlorpyrifos.	1	pesticide
22489894	Benzalkonium chloride induces anterior chamber inflammation in previously untreated patients with ocular hypertension as measured by flare meter: a randomized clinical trial.	PURPOSE: The deleterious effects of benzalkonium chloride (BAK) on the ocular surface are well known. However, few clinical data are available to prove a toxic effect at the level of the anterior chamber. The laser flare meter is a reliable tool to detect low levels of inflammation in the anterior chamber. We wanted to know whether instillation of BAK-preserved timolol in one eye would result in higher laser flare values than the instillation of preservative-free timolol in the fellow eye. METHODS: Randomized prospective, single-masked clinical trial. Twenty-eight untreated patients with ocular hypertension were recruited. After obtaining baseline flare values, we randomly assigned one eye to BAK-preserved timolol and the fellow eye to preservative-free timolol. After 1 month, flare measurements were repeated. RESULTS: There was a significant increase in the flare values in the two treatment regimens, but the increase in the BAK-treated eyes was higher than in the preservative-free treated eyes, and this difference in increase was statistically significant. CONCLUSION: This is the first study to show that short-term BAK administration produces inflammation in the anterior segment of previously untreated patients whose blood-aqueous barrier was not affected by recent intraocular surgery.	1	pesticide
22497784	Leaching of azoxystrobin and its degradation product R234886 from Danish agricultural field sites.	The objective was to estimate leaching of the fungicide azoxystrobin (methyl (αE)-2-[[6-(2-cyanophenoxy)-4-pyrimidinyl]oxy]-α-(methoxymethylene)benzene-acetate) and one of its primary degradation products R234886 ([(E)-2-(2-[6-cyanophenoxy)-pyrimidin-4-yloxyl]-phenyl-3-methoxyacrylic acid], major fraction) at four agricultural research fields (one sandy and three loamy) in Denmark. Water was sampled from tile drains, suction cups and groundwater wells for a minimum period of two years after application of azoxystrobin. Neither azoxystrobin nor R234886 were detected at the sandy site, but did leach through loamy soils. While azoxystrobin was generally only detected during the first couple of months following application, R234886 leached for a longer period of time and at higher concentrations (up to 2.1μgL(-1)). Azoxystrobin is classified as very toxic to aquatic organisms and R234886 as very harmful. Our study shows that azoxystrobin and R234886 can leach through loamy soils for a long period of time following application of the pesticide and thereby pose a potential threat to vulnerable aquatic environments and drinking water resources. We thus recommend the inclusion of azoxystrobin and R234886 in pesticide monitoring programmes and further investigation of their long-term ecotoxicological effects.	1	pesticide
22499834	A pretreatment method for HPLC analysis of cypermethrin in microbial degradation systems.	In this paper, a pretreatment method for high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) determination of cypermethrin (CY) in microbial degradation systems was systemically studied, primarily to solve the problem of inaccurate determination of CY concentration caused by its uneven distribution in the systems. A suitable pretreatment method was established, including sampling, extraction and dehydration of CY. Partial sampling could be taken for bacterial and yeast systems in which CY was uniformly dispersed by an emulsifying agent, while total sampling was only suitable for mold systems with or without an emulsifying agent. CY could be fully extracted from the samples in which microbial cells were disrupted by ultrasonic treatment with acetonitrile under ultrasonic condition. The extract could be effectively dehydrated and purified by passing it through an anhydrous Na(2)SO(4) column followed by an elution with acetonitrile. The determination of CY in the pretreated sample by HPLC showed a high precision [relative standard deviation (RSD) = 1.14%, n = 5] and a good stability over a period of five days (RSD = 1.57%, n = 5). The recoveries of CY in microbial degradation systems at three different spiked levels ranged from 95.68 to 108.09% (RSD = 0.50-5.87%, n = 5).	1	pesticide
22516675	Effects of a triazole fungicide and a pyrethroid insecticide on the decomposition of leaves in the presence or absence of macroinvertebrate shredders.	Previously, laboratory experiments have revealed that freely diluted azole fungicides potentiate the direct toxic effect of pyrethroid insecticides on Daphnia magna. More ecologically relevant exposure scenarios where pesticides are adsorbed have not been addressed. In this study we exposed beech leaves (Fagus sylvatica) to the azole fungicide propiconazole (50 or 500 μg L(-1)), the pyrethroid insecticide alpha-cypermethrin (0.1 or 1 μg L(-1)) or any combination of the two for 3h. Exposed leaves were transferred to aquaria with or without an assemblage of macroinvertebrate shredders, and we studied treatment effects on rates of microbial leaf decomposition, microbial biomass (using C:N ratio as a surrogate measure) and macroinvertebrate shredding activity during 26 days post-exposure. Microbial leaf decomposition rates were significantly reduced in the propiconazole treatments, and the reduction in microbial activity was significantly correlated with loss of microbial biomass (increased C:N ratio). Macroinvertebrate shredding activity was significantly reduced in the alpha-cypermethrin treatments. In addition, the macroinvertebrate assemblage responded to the propiconazole treatments by increasing their consumption of leaf litter with lower microbial biomass, probably to compensate for the reduced nutritional quality of this leaf litter. We found no interaction between the two pesticides on macroinvertebrate shredding activity, using Independent Action as a reference model. In terms of microbial leaf decomposition rates, however, alpha-cypermethrin acted as an antagonist on propiconazole. Based on these results we emphasise the importance of considering indirect effects of pesticides in the risk assessment of surface water ecosystems.	1	pesticide
22520338	Efficacy of slow-release collar formulations of imidacloprid/flumethrin and deltamethrin and of spot-on formulations of fipronil/(s)-- methoprene, dinotefuran/pyriproxyfen/permethrin and (s) -methoprene/amitraz/fipronil against Rhipicephalus sanguineus and Ctenocephalides felis felis on dogs.	BACKGROUND: Two studies evaluating the efficacy of an imidacloprid/flumethrin collar (Seresto®, Bayer Animal Health, IVP), a deltamethrin collar (Scalibor®, MSD, CP1), a fipronil/(s)-methoprene spot-on (Frontline Combo®, Merial, CP2), a dinotefuran/pyriproxyfen/permethrin spot-on (Vectra 3D®, Ceva, CP3) and an amitraz/fipronil/(s)-methoprene spot-on (Certifect®, Merial, CP4/CP5) against repeated infestations with Rhipicephalus sanguineus and Ctenocephalides felis felis on dogs were conducted over periods of 226 days and 71 days respectively. METHODS: The first study comprised 4 groups of treated dogs and one untreated control group, and the second 3 groups of treated dogs and one control group. Each group consisted of 8 dogs. All dogs were infested with ticks and fleas at regular intervals. Ticks were counted 6 h, 18 h or 48 h after infestations and fleas 24 h after infestations. Efficacies of the treatments were calculated by comparison with the untreated control groups using standard descriptive statistics. RESULTS: The protective 48 h tick efficacy was 97.8% to 100% for the IVP (226 days), 69.3% to 97.4% for CP1 (170 days), 99.6% to 43.4% for CP2 (35 days) and 98% to 61.4% for CP3 (35 days).The protective 18 h tick efficacy was 98% to 99.6% for the IVP (71 days), 100% to 86.5% for CP4 (29 days), 100% to 72.8% for CP4 after re-treatment (35 days) and 98.8% to 54.3% for CP5 (35 days).The protective 6 h tick efficacy was 85.6% at Day 7 and 90.1% to 97.1% from Day 14 onwards for the IVP (70 days), 92.3% to 70.7% for CP4 (35 days), 97.5% to 65.2% for CP4 after re-treatment (35 days) and 95.1% to 51.8% for CP5 (35 days).The protective 24 h flea efficacy was 99.5/90.9% to 100% for the IVP (71/226 days), 66.7% to 83% for CP1 (170 days), 100% to 88.5% for CP2 (35 days), 100% to 73.3% for CP3 (35 days), 100% to 98.7% for CP4 (35 days), 100% to 87.5% for CP4 after re-treatment (35 days) and 100% to 79.5% for CP5 (35 days). CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that the long-term efficacy provided by a medicated collar that is effective, is a means to overcome the fluctuating efficacy of spot-on treatments resulting from a lack of pet owner re-treatment compliance, and consequently protect animals successfully against ectoparasites and probably vector-borne diseases.	1	pesticide
22526997	A comparative study on the persistence of imidacloprid and beta-cyfluthrin in vegetables.	In an effort to compare the persistence of imidacloprid and beta-cyfluthrin, when applied through a ready mix formulation, Solomon 300 OD @ 200 and 400 mL ha(-1) in the fruits of brinjal, tomato and okra, the present study has been made. The study indicated that the dissipation of these insecticides irrespective of fruits followed concentration dependent first order kinetics. The degradation constant and half live value of beta-cyfluthrin varies between -0.287 and -0.642 day(-1) and 1.07 and 2.41 days while that of imidacloprid between -0.21 and -0.34 day(-1) and 1.98 and 3.30 days respectively suggesting that the persistence of beta-cyfluthrin is lower than that of imidacloprid in fruits of these vegetables. Moreover, the persistence of these insecticides when compared between different fruits, it is highest in brinjal followed by tomato and least in okra, a probable clue of which has been proposed based on the non-enzymatic antioxidant content of the fruits.	1	pesticide
22542132	Reactivity of neonicotinoid insecticides with carbonate radicals.	The reaction of three chloronicotinoid insecticides, namely Imidacloprid (IMD), Thiacloprid (THIA) and Acetamiprid (ACT), with carbonate radicals (CO·₃⁻) was investigated. The second order rate constants (4 ± 1) × 10⁶, (2.8 ± 0.5) × 10⁵, and (1.5 ± 1) × 10⁵ M⁻¹ s⁻¹ were determined for IMD, THIA and ACT, respectively. The absorption spectra of the organic intermediates formed after CO·₃⁻ attack to IMD is in line with those reported for α-aminoalkyl radicals. A reaction mechanism involving an initial charge transfer from the amidine nitrogen of the insecticides to CO·₃⁻ is proposed and further supported by the identified reaction products. The pyridine moiety of the insecticides remains unaffected until nicotinic acid is formed. CO·₃⁻ radical reactivity towards IMD, ACT, and THIA is low compared to that of HO• radicals, excited triplet states, and ¹O₂, and is therefore little effective in depleting neonicotinoid insecticides.	1	pesticide
22550626	Comparative efficacy on dogs of a single topical treatment with fipronil/(S)-methoprene or weekly physiological hygiene shampoos against Ctenocephalides felis in a simulated flea-infested environment.	Flea infestations of pets continue to persist due to the lack of knowledge of flea biology and ecology. It is not unusual that pet owners believe regular hygiene, such as shampooing their dogs can replace regular insecticidal treatment. The objective of this study was to compare in a flea simulated environment, modelling exposure similar to that found in a home, that the use of regular physiological shampoo does not control fleas adequately when compared to a long acting topical formulation. Three groups of six dogs were formed: one untreated control group, one group treated monthly with the topical formulation of fipronil/(S)-methoprene, and a third group treated weekly with a hygiene shampoo. All dogs were infested with adult unfed Ctenocephalides felis fleas (200±5) on Days -28 and -21. Each animal's sleeping box was fitted with a plastic cup mounted to the inside roof of the box. The sleeping bench of each animal was covered with a carpet to accommodate flea development. The dogs were maintained in their kennels throughout the study. In order to maintain the environmental flea challenge, C. felis pupae (100±5) were placed in the plastic cup in each animal's sleeping box on Days -14, -7, 0, 7, 14, 21, 28, 35 and 42. The dogs were combed and fleas counted weekly on Days -1, 3, 10, 17, 24, 31, 38, 45, and 51. The fleas were placed immediately back on the dogs. On Day 60, fleas were counted and removed. Flea infestations in the untreated control group at each count averaged between 46.2 and 74.2 fleas throughout the study. The average number of fleas infesting dogs was significantly different (p<0.05) between the untreated and the two treatment groups and between the two treatment groups at all counts throughout the two months study (Days 3, 10, 17, 24, 31, 38, 45, 51 and 60). The efficacy was never below 99.1% in the fipronil/(S)-methoprene group, and efficacy in the shampoo group was never above 79.2%. Weekly shampooing in treatment group 3 was intentionally delayed after Day 42, to evaluate wether missing a weekly bath would affect the flea population. The Day 48 data indicate that forgetting or delaying a single weekly shampooing resulted in a clear increase in flea numbers and a significant decrease in efficacy from 68.2% to 34.8%. The fipronil(S)/methoprene treatment allowed a continuous control as demonstrated by the high efficacy against fleas, and also the number of flea-free dogs on seven of the nine weekly assessments, in spite of what was essentially a continuous flea challenge model.	1	pesticide
22551873	Occurrence and levels of organochlorine compounds in human breast milk in Bangladesh.	In low-income countries, the use of some organochlorine pesticides is still common in order to increase food production. Monitoring the chemical exposure is an important step in risk-reducing strategies. This is the first study to report concentrations of organochlorines in breast milk of women from Bangladesh where farming is the main income source. Organochlorines such as p,p'-DDT, o,p'-DDT, p,p'-DDE, p,p'-DDD (i.e., ∑DDT), HCB, α-, β- and γ-HCH, trans-chlordane, cis-chlordane, oxy-chlordane, trans-nonachlor, cis-nonachlor, mirex and polychlorinated biphenyls (CB 28, 52, 99, 101, 105, 114, 118, 123, 128, 138, 141, 149, 153, 156, 157, 163, 167, 170, 180, 183, 187, 189, 194) were analyzed in breast milk collected in 2002 from 72 first-time mothers (median age 20years) living in the rural area Matlab, Bangladesh. While the concentrations of PCBs and many of the pesticides were low, the concentrations of p,p'-DDT and its metabolite p,p'-DDE were high (median 349 and 1645ngg(-1)lipid, respectively) in comparison to other countries. The median value of ∑DDT was 2123ngg(-1)lipid. The estimated daily exposure to p,p'-DDT, p,p'-DDE and ∑DDTs was 10, 30 and 42μgkg(-1) body weight, respectively, in 3months old infants. The p,p'-DDE/p,p'-DDT ratio ranged from 1 to 23, where 58% of the mothers had a ratio below 5 indicating recent or ongoing DDT exposure. This study reports infant exposure and maternal body burden of organochlorines through breast milk. Although the findings give no reason to limit breast-feeding, it is essential to identify the main exposure sources and find means to decrease the exposure.	1	pesticide
22553127	Pyrethroids in Southern California coastal sediments.	Little is known about pyrethroid fate and effects in estuarine and marine environments. In the present study, the extent and magnitude of pyrethroids in coastal embayments of the Southern California Bight (SCB), USA, were assessed. Using a stratified probabilistic design, 155 sediment samples were collected from four embayment habitats (estuaries, marinas, open bays, and ports) and analyzed for eight common-use pyrethroids. Total pyrethroid concentrations ranged from less than 0.5 to 230 µg/kg dry weight (area-weighted mean concentration=5.1 ± 3.1 µg/kg) and were detected in 35% of the total SCB embayment area. Estuaries and marinas had the greatest areal extent of detectable concentrations (up to 65%) and the greatest area-weighted mean concentrations (22.1 ± 26.5 µg/kg). Sites with the greatest pyrethroid concentrations were located near sources of runoff from urban watersheds. Bifenthrin and cyfluthrin were detected in 32 and 15% of all samples, respectively, whereas the other six pyrethroids were detected in ≤ 5% of samples. Permethrin and bifenthrin had the highest concentrations at 132 and 65 µg/kg. Toxic units estimated for the marine amphipod Eohaustorius estuarius ranged from 0 to 5.8, exceeding unity in 9 and 32% of the total and estuary habitat areas, respectively, and were not correlated with mortality, suggesting that other factors (e.g., co-occurring contaminants, reduced bioavailability) may affect the predictive capability using a single test species.	1	pesticide
22572800	Adsorption-desorption of metolachlor and atrazine in Indian soils: effect of fly ash amendment.	The effect of two fly ashes as soil amendment on the adsorption-desorption of metolachlor [2-chloro-N-(2-ethyl-6-methylphenyl)-N-(2-methoxy-1-methylphenyl)] and atrazine (2-chloro-4-ethylamino-6-isopropylamino-1,3,5-triazine) was studied in alluvial and laterite soils. The adsorption data for both the herbicides fitted well the Freundlich equation, and Freundlich adsorption coefficient (K (f)) increased with an increase of fly ash amount. Both the fly ashes differed in their extent to increase herbicide sorption, and the effect was different in different soils. Atrazine was sorbed more in the soils/soils + fly ash mixtures than the metolachlor. The K (f) values showed significant correlation with the amount of fly ash amendment (correlation coefficient, R > 0.982). The desorption isotherms also fitted the Freundlich equation, and desorption showed hysteresis which increased with an increase in the content of fly ash amendment. The free energy change (ΔG) indicated that the sorption process is exothermic, spontaneous, and physical in nature. The study has shown that fly ash as soil amendment significantly increased the sorption of metolachlor and atrazine, but the effect is soil- and fly ash-specific.	1	pesticide
22614519	Synergistic effect of malathion and estrogen on mammary gland carcinogenesis.	Breast cancer is the most frequent malignancy diagnosed in women and is             a classical model of hormone-dependent malignancy. Over the past 15-20 years,             epidemiological studies have pointed to an increased breast cancer risk associated             with prolonged exposure to female hormones. On the other hand, environmental chemicals             such as malathion, an organophosphorous pesticide used to control a wide range             of sucking and chewing pests of field crops, may be involved in the etiology of             breast cancers. Results indicated that estrogen alone increased average number             of lobules per mm2 of rat mammary glands in comparison to control and malathion             alone at 30, 124, 240 and 400 days after 5-day treatments. On the other hand,             malathion alone significantly increased the number of ducts in stage of proliferation             at 10-240 days after 5-day treatments. Furthermore, markers for cancer detection             such as mutant p53, c-myc, c-fos and CYPs proteins were overexpressed after treatments.             Atropine, an anticholinergic drug, counteracted these effects when it was combined             with malathion under similar conditions. The combination of malathion and estrogen             synergistically increased number of lobules and ducts per mm2 of rat mammary glands             after treatments and inducing mammary cancer. It can be concluded that combination             of an environmental substance such as the pesticide malathion and an endogenous             substance such as estrogen can enhance the deleterious effects in human mammary             glands inducing cancer and atropine is able to diminish these effects.	1	pesticide
22629178	Impacts of horticultural mineral oils and two insecticide practices on population fluctuation of Diaphorina citri and spread of Huanglongbing in a citrus orchard in Sarawak.	Aspects of the incidence and spread of the citrus disease huanglongbing (HLB) in relation to the vector Diaphorina citri population fluctuation were studied from January 1999 to December 2001 seasons in a 0.8 ha citrus orchard at Jemukan (1° 33'N, 110° 41'E), Southwest Sarawak in Malaysia. In relation to insecticide and horticultural mineral oils (HMOs) use, levels of HLB infection rose quite rapidly over the next 3 years in the unsprayed control and less rapidly in the other treatments such as imidacloprid, nC24HMO, and triazophos/cypermethrin/chlorpyrifos. Levels of HLB as determined by Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) were 42.2%, 9.4%, 11.4%, and 22.7%, respectively. The effects of nC(24)HMO and conventional pesticides on the citrus psyllid population and parasitoids in citrus orchard were also determined.	1	pesticide
22634589	In vitro Antifungal Efficacy of Biguanides and Quaternary Ammonium Compounds against Cleanroom Fungal Isolates.	In vitro antifungal activities of three biocides including one biguanide (chlorhexidine) and two quaternary ammonium compounds (benzalkonium chloride and cetrimide) were studied against eight cleanroom fungal isolates by using a microbiological broth dilution technique as per Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) M38-A guidelines. No data exists on the activity of biocides on pharmaceutical cleanroom fungal isolates. Minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) for all three biocides against species of Aspergillus and Penicillium species ranged between 4 and 16 μg/mL. MICs of Curvularia, Cladosporium, and Alternaria species also showed less than 16 μg/mL. To date, susceptibility breakpoints have not been established for biocides, and this is the first study using the CLSI broth microdilution antifungal susceptibility testing to determine the MIC value of biocides. This study clearly demonstrates that the most frequently isolated micro-organisms from an environmental monitoring program may be periodically subjected to microbroth dilution testing with cleanroom disinfectant agents used in the disinfection program to confirm their sensitivity profile. Further work is needed in this field to increase our understanding of biocides against different fungal isolates and to enable to the design of more efficient disinfection and contamination control programs. LAY ABSTRACT: Increased trend of fungal growth is observed in pharmaceutical and medical device cleanrooms. It is essential to have knowledge of choosing effective disinfectants for minimizing fungal occurrence in cleanrooms. The present study establish minimum cut-offs for specific fungal isolates that are problematic in cleanrooms against commonly used disinfectants (quaternary ammonium compounds and biguanides). Further studies based on this minimum inhibitory concentration of disinfectants, effective time, and cleaning methods could prevent fungal occurrence.	1	pesticide
22639410	Contaminant residues and declines of the Cascades frog (Rana cascadae) in the California Cascades, USA.	Populations of Cascades frogs (Rana cascadae) have declined precipitously in the Mount Lassen area, but remain abundant in the other half of their California range in the Klamath Mountains. To evaluate the role of contaminants in Cascade frog declines, we sampled sediment and frog tadpole tissue at 31 sites where Cascades frogs had disappeared and sites where Cascades frogs are still present across the Lassen and Klamath regions. Pacific chorus frogs (Pseudacris regilla) were tested and used as surrogates for residue concentrations in Cascades frogs. We analyzed a total of 79 tadpole samples for 73 semivolatile contaminants including pesticides, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). The most frequently detected residue was endosulfan sulfate, followed by dacthal, chlorpyrifos, PCB 187, endosulfan II, trans-chlordane, and trans-nonachlor. Chorus frogs had similar residue concentrations as Cascades frogs for most but not all chemicals, indicating that chorus frogs can serve as a reasonable proxy for chemical concentrations in Cascades frogs. None of the contaminants in tissue or sediment had significantly higher concentrations at sites where Cascades frogs have disappeared than at sites where Cascades frogs are still present. We found no evidence to support the hypothesis that the contaminants analyzed have contributed to the decline of Cascades frogs in northern California, although we were able to analyze only a handful of the over 300 pesticides currently used in the area.	1	pesticide
22647463	Survey of pyrethroid and organophosphate resistance in Brazilian field populations of Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus: detection of C190A mutation in domain II of the para-type sodium channel gene.	The cattle tick Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus causes expressive damage to livestock in Brazil and other countries. Its control is becoming more difficult due to the development of resistance in populations. Early detection of resistance can help in developing effective control strategies. This study evaluated the susceptibility of R. microplus to cypermethrin and chlorpyriphos and was the first attempt to identify the mechanism of resistance (target site insensitivity) in cattle tick populations from Minas Gerais state (Southeastern Brazil). Engorged female ticks were collected from 10 ranches within the state of Minas Gerais, and susceptibility was evaluated with the larval packet test (LPT) using technical grade cypermethrin and chlorpyriphos. It was possible to analyze LPT results of seven populations. Target site insensitivity was investigated in all 10 isolates by using molecular approaches for detection of the T2134A substitution within the domain III S6 segment and the C190A in the domain II S4-5 linker from the para-type sodium channel gene. LPT showed that all seven populations were resistant to cypermethrin with resistance ratio (RR) ranging from 16.0 to 25.0 and 85.7% were resistant to chlorpyriphos (RR=2.2-15.6). Although the T2134A mutation was not detected, the C190A mutation was highly prevalent, being present in 82-100% of the alleles sampled in field populations. A significant correlation was found between the LC50 values for cypermethrin and the frequency of the C190A mutation suggesting that it might be responsible for the phenotypic resistance detected.	1	pesticide
22667099	[Determination of thiophanate-methyl and carbendazim in cucumber and soil by QuEChERS-high performance liquid chromatography-triple quadrupole tandem mass spectrometry].	A method was developed for the determination of thiophanate-methyl and carbendazim residues in cucumber and soil by using QuEChERS-high performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-ESI-MS/MS). The residues in the samples were extracted by acetonitrile, cleaned up by developed QuEChERS method, and then analyzed by using LC-MS/MS in multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode via positive electrospray ionization with an Agilent ZORBAX SB-C, column (30 mm x 2.1 mm, 5 microm) as the analytical column. The recoveries of thiophanate-methyl spiked at four levels of 0.01, 0.05, 0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg were from 87.3% to 96.0% with the relative standard deviations (RSDs) of 8.0%-9.3% in cucumber, from 88.8% to 93.4% with the RSDs of 5.3%-9.9% in soil; the recoveries of carbendazim spiked at the same levels as those of thiophanate-methyl were from 87.1% to 92.3% with the RSDs of 5.2%-7.5% in cucumber, from 85.8% to 90.9% with the RSDs of 5.3%-13.2% in soil. The method is simple, rapid and characterized with acceptable sensitivity and accuracy to meet the requirements of the pesticide residue analysis. This method is applicable to confirm the residues of thiophanate-methyl and carbendazim	1	pesticide
22702209	Effect of glyphosate-based herbicide on acetylcholinesterase activity in tadpoles, Hoplobatrachus rugulosus.	This study focused on the effects of a glyphosate-based herbicide on activity of the neuron enzyme, acetylcholinesterase (AchE), in the tadpole stage (stage 35-39) of the East Asian Bullfrog, Hoplobatrachus rugulosus. There were 4 herbicide concentration treatments consisting of glyphosate-based herbicide added at 21, 24, 27 and 30 microl to 1L de-chlorinated water in glass containers (10x15x20 cm). There were 4 replicates per treatment, each replicate using 20 tadpoles. The toxicity results were compared with tadpoles in distilled water as a control treatment. After 24, 48, 72 and 96 hours exposure to glyphosate-based herbicide concentrations, LC50 values of 25.21, 24.66, 24.16 and 23.63 microl/L, respectively, were recorded. AChE activities decreased significantly and markedly with herbicide concentration. Such inhibition of AChE activity by this glyphosate-based herbicide indicates the potential of such herbicides to disrupt ecological communities in water near where the herbicides are applied.	1	pesticide
22711550	Species traits as predictors for intrinsic sensitivity of aquatic invertebrates to the insecticide chlorpyrifos.	Ecological risk assessment (ERA) has followed a taxonomy-based approach, making the assumption that related species will show similar sensitivity to toxicants, and using safety factors or species sensitivity distributions to extrapolate from tested to untested species. In ecology it has become apparent that taxonomic approaches may have limitations for the description and understanding of species assemblages in nature. Therefore it has been proposed that the inclusion of species traits in ERA could provide a useful and alternative description of the systems under investigation. At the same time, there is a growing recognition that the use of mechanistic approaches in ERA, including conceptual and quantitative models, may improve predictive and extrapolative power. Purposefully linking traits with mechanistic effect models could add value to taxonomy-based ERA by improving our understanding of how structural and functional system facets may facilitate inter-species extrapolation. Here, we explore whether and in what ways traits can be linked purposefully to mechanistic effect models to predict intrinsic sensitivity using available data on the acute sensitivity and toxicokinetics of a range of freshwater arthropods exposed to chlorpyrifos. The results of a quantitative linking of seven different endpoints and twelve traits demonstrate that while quantitative links between traits and/or trait combinations and process based (toxicokinetic) model parameters can be established, the use of simple traits to predict classical sensitivity endpoints yields little insight. Remarkably, neither of the standard sensitivity values, i.e. the LC(50) or EC(50), showed a strong correlation with traits. Future research in this area should include a quantitative linking of toxicodynamic parameter estimations and physiological traits, and requires further consideration of how mechanistic trait-process/parameter links can be used for prediction of intrinsic sensitivity across species for different substances in ERA.	1	pesticide
22738391	Effect of home processing on the distribution and reduction of pesticide residues in apples.	The effect of home processing (washing, peeling, coring and juicing) on residue levels of chlorpyrifos, β-cypermethrin, tebuconazole, acetamiprid and carbendazim in apple segments was investigated. The pesticide residues were determined by UPLC-MS/MS and GC with a flame photometric (FPD) and electron capture detection (ECD). The results indicated that the pesticide residue levels in the apple peel and core were higher compared with in the apple flesh. After peeled and cored apple was processed into apple juice and pomace, chlorpyrifos, β-cypermethrin and tebuconazole were concentrated in the apple pomace. However, residues of acetamiprid and carbendazim were exceptions. The apple pomace was free of acetamiprid, which was mainly present in the apple juice. After washing the mean loss of chlorpyrifos, β-cypermethrin, tebuconazole, acetamiprid and carbendazim from apples under recommended dosage and twofold higher dosage were 17-21%, 6.7-7.1%, 13-32%, 42-67% and 47-50%, respectively. The pesticide residues were significantly reduced in the edible part of the apple except for β-cypermethrin during peeling and coring process. The removal effect of apple juicing was found to be the most pronounced on β-cypermethrin residue, which was reduced in the range of 81-84%, and the reductions of chlorpyrifos, tebuconazole, acetamiprid and carbendazim upon apple juicing were in the range of 15-36%.	1	pesticide
22753338	Insecticide toxic effects on Trichogramma ostriniae (Hymenoptera: Trichogrammatidae).	BACKGROUND: The parasitoid Trichogramma ostriniae (Pang and Chen) is a major natural enemy of many lepidopterans, but only a few studies have been conducted on the compatibility of biological and chemical controls. In this study, the selectivity of 30 insecticides to T. ostriniae adults was evaluated. RESULTS: Among the seven classes of chemicals tested, organophosphates and carbamates had the highest intrinsic toxicity to the wasp, with LC(50) values ranging from 0.032 (0.029-0.038) to 2.38 (1.91-3.15) mg AI L(-1). They are followed by phenylpyrazoles, avermectins, neonicotinoids and pyrethroids, which induce variable toxicity responses, with LC(50) values ranging from 0.14 (0.11-0.21) to 56.67 (48.94-67.24) mg AI L(-1), from 2.57 (1.85-4.28) to 4.48 (3.34-6.83) mg AI L(-1), from 2.48 (1.80-4.03) to 503.6 (457.6-557.5) mg AI L(-1) and from 5.44 (3.95-8.84) to 104.2 (92.48-119.7) mg AI L(-1) respectively. The insect growth regulators (IGRs) exhibited least toxicity to the parasitoid. CONCLUSION: Risk quotient analysis classifies neonicotinoids, avermectins, pyrethroids, IGRs and phenylpyrazoles (with the exception of butane-fipronil and fipronil) as safe agents to the parasitoid, but categorises organophosphates and carbamates as slightly to moderately toxic or dangerous to T. ostriniae.	1	pesticide
22760505	Sampling of organophosphorus pesticides at trace levels in the atmosphere using XAD-2 adsorbent and analysis by gas chromatography coupled with nitrogen-phosphorus and ion-trap mass spectrometry detectors.	This paper shows an analytical methodology based on solid-phase extraction by XAD-2 adsorbent and gas chromatography (GC) coupled with nitrogen-phosphorus (NPD) and ion-trap mass spectrometry detectors (ITMS) in negative chemical ionization (NCI) mode analyses for investigating organophosphorus pesticides (OPs) at trace levels (in nanograms per cubic meter) in the atmosphere: in particular, we set up a procedure for analyzing 38 OPs. For the analytical methodology linearity responses have been obtained in GC-NPD (r > 0.9982) and GC-NCI/ITMS (r > 0.9974) in a large linearity range (0.10-500 pg μL(-1) in both cases) whereas the limits of detection range between 0.01 and 0.03 pg μL(-1) in both the techniques with a relative standard deviation (RSD) below 9.0 in both cases. Particular attention has been devoted to investigate the effect of different solvents (n-hexane, benzene, chloroform, carbon disulfide, acetonitrile) on the OP recovery as well the breakthrough volumes have been evaluated (100% recovery up to 4,286 L g(-1)). The study has also investigated the OP recoveries at different sampling flow rates (1.5 and 2.0 L min(-1)) for determining the optimal conditions for sample collection. Finally, the whole approach has been successfully applied to real samples collected in four different areas in the Molise region (Central Italy) during different seasons: the results show that parathion-ethyl, dimethoate, omethoate, and malathion are present in all periods at low levels (ranging between 70 and 10 ng m(-3)): their levels in such periods can be correlated with spraying as well atmospheric conditions favoring the dispersion/accumulation of these pollutants.	1	pesticide
22768325	Cell suspension culture-mediated incorporation of the rice bel gene into transgenic cotton.	Cotton plants engineered for resistance to the herbicides, glyphosate or glufosinate have made a considerable impact on the production of the crop worldwide. In this work, embryogenic cell cultures derived from Gossypium hirsutum L. cv Coker 312 hypocotyl callus were transformed via Agrobacterium tumefaciens with the rice cytochrome P450 gene, CYP81A6 (bel). In rice, bel has been shown to confer resistance to both bentazon and sulfanylurea herbicides. Transformed cells were selected on a liquid medium supplemented alternately or simultaneously with kanamycin (50mg/L) and bentazon (4.2 µmol). A total of 17 transgenic cotton lines were recovered, based on the initial resistance to bentazon and on PCR detection of the bel transgene. Bel integration into the cotton genome was confirmed by Southern blot and expression of the transgene was verified by RT-PCR. In greenhouse and experimental plot trials, herbicide (bentazon) tolerance of up to 1250 mg/L was demonstrated in the transgenic plants. Transgenic lines with a single copy of the bel gene showed normal Mendelian inheritance of the characteristic. Importantly, resistance to bentazon was shown to be stably incorporated in the T1, T2 and T3 generations of self-fertilised descendents and in plants outcrossed to another upland cotton cultivar. Engineering resistance to bentazon in cotton through the heterologous expression of bel opens the possibility of incorporating this trait into elite cultivars, a strategy that would give growers a more flexible alternative to weed management in cotton crops.	1	pesticide
22799197	[Simultaneous determination of phosphorous by-products and inorganic anions in glyphosate mother liquor by ion chromatography with suppressed-conductivity detection].	The by-product anion content was an important index for the evaluation of pesticide glyphosate's productivity technology. A method was developed for the simultaneous determination of glyphosate, phosphorous by-products and other trace impurity anions in the mother liquor of glyphosate procedure by ion chromatography (IC). The sample was diluted with deionized water and filtrated by 0.22 microm nylon filter membrane, and then analyzed by IC directly without anymore pretreatment. The analytical column was Dionex IonPac AS11-HC (250 mm x 4 mm) with a guard column IonPac AG11-HC (50 mm x 4 mm). Gradient KOH eluent generated by an eluent generation cartridge was used at a flow rate of 1.0 mL/min. The detection was performed by a Dionex suppressed conductivity detector. The quantitative analysis of external standard calibration curves was used. The linear ranges of the method for glyphosate, methyl glyphosate, hexamethylphosphoramide (HMPA), glyphosine, phosphite, phosphate, chloride and sulfate were 0.1 - 20 mg/L (r = 0.9995), 0.1 - 20 mg/L (r = 0.9993), 0.1 - 50 mg/L (r = 0.9999), 0.25 - 50 mg/L ( r = 0.9998), 0.05 - 20 mg/L (r = 0.9999), 0.2 - 50 mg/L ( r = 0.9985), 0.02 - 20 mg/L (r = 0.9999) and 0.05 - 50 mg/L (r = 0.9980), respectively. The average recoveries were 93.7% - 104.0% with the relative standard deviations less than 2.5% (n = 7), and the detection limits (S/N = 3) were 0.002 - 0.025 mg/L. The method has been applied to determine the contents of glyphosate, phosphorous by-products and inorganic anions in the mother liquor of glyphosate with satisfactory results.	1	pesticide
22803465	[Prevention and control of invaded plant Phytolacca americana in sandy coastal shelter forests].	The invasion of Phytolacca americana has produced serious damage to the coastal shelter forests in China. In order to search for the effective measures for controlling the growth of P. americana, several plots in the Robinia pseudoacacia forest invaded by P. Americana to the relatively same extent were installed, and the measures of physical control (mowing and root cutting) and chemical control (spraying herbicides) were adopted to control the invasion of P. Americana, taking the site with good growth of Amorpha fruticosa in the forest and without any control measures as the comparison. The results showed that mowing could rapidly decrease the growth of P. americana in the same year, but the growth recovered in the next year. 1/3 root cutting only reduced the aboveground growth of P. americana in the same year, and the growth was recovered in the third year; while 2/3 root cutting and whole cutting could effectively cleanup the P. americana plants all the time. Spraying quizalofop-p-ethyl and paraquat only killed the aboveground part of P. americana in the same year, but this part of P. americana recovered to the normal level in the next year; while spraying 45 g x L(-1) of glyphosate could completely kill the whole P. americana plants till the third year. The growth of P. americana at the site with good growth of A. fruticosa and without any control measures maintained at a low level all the time, suggesting that planting A. fruticosa in R. pseudoacacia forest would be an effective approach to prevent and control the P. americana invasion.	1	pesticide
22807346	Attenuation of cellular antioxidant defense mechanisms in kidney of rats intoxicated with carbofuran.	Carbofuran, an anticholinestrase carbamate, is commonly used as an insecticide. Its toxic effect on kidney is less established. The present study was designed to investigate the effect of carbofuran on kidneys and to understand the mechanism involved in its nephrotoxicity. Male Wistar rats were divided into two groups of eight animals each; control animals received sunflower oil (vehicle) and carbofuran exposed animals were treated with carbofuran (1 mg/kg body weight) orally for 28 days. At the end of the treatment, significant increase was observed in urea and creatinine levels in serum along with the inhibition of acetylcholinesterase, suggesting nephrotoxicity. The antioxidant defense system of animals treated with carbofuran was altered in terms of increased lipid peroxidation, reduced glutathione, and total thiols and decreased activity of antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase and catalase). The results indicate that carbofuran is nephrotoxic and increased oxidative stress appears to be involved in its nephrotoxic effects.	1	pesticide
22832337	Chlorpyrifos acute exposure induces hyperglycemia and hyperlipidemia in rats.	In this study we evaluated the hyperglycemic and hyperlipidemic effects of chlorpyrifos (CPF) after an acute exposure in rats. The mechanisms involved in hyperglycemia induced by CPF were studied. A single dose of CPF (50 mg kg(-1), subcutaneous, s.c.) was administered to overnight-fasted rats. Glucose and corticosterone levels, lipid status and paraoxonase (PON1) activity were determined in plasma of rats. Cardiovascular risk factors and the atherogenic index were calculated. Glycogen levels, tyrosine aminotransferase (TAT) and glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase) activities were determined in livers of rats. Cerebral acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity was also determined. CPF caused an increase in glucose and glycogen levels as well as in TAT and G6Pase activities. The CPF exposure caused an increase in corticosterone levels, an inhibition of AChE activity and a reduction of PON1 activity. Regarding the lipid status, CPF induced an increase in triglycerides (TG) and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL) levels and a decrease in high-density lipoprotein (HDL) levels associated with an increase of cardiovascular risk factors and the atherogenic index. The present study demonstrated that a single CPF administration caused hyperglycemia and hyperlipidemia in rats. The activation of the gluconeogenesis pathway, probably elicited by hypercorticosteronemia, is involved in the hyperglycemic effect of CPF in rats.	1	pesticide
22832753	Resistance to cypermethrin and amitraz in Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus on the Santa Catarina Plateau, Brazil.	With the objective of evaluating Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus resistance to cipermetrina and amitraz, were collected engorged tick females from cattle on 20 farms on the Santa Catarina Plateau, in southern Brazil, between January of 2004 and May of 2006. Were also received 20 groups of engorged R. (B.) microplus females, collected by cattle farmers requesting acaricidal efficacy (AE) testing. Were performed in vitro tests, which consisted of immersing engorged females in cypermethrin (0.015%) and in amitraz (0.025%). An AE >95% was considered indicative of effectiveness. Of the 20 collected groups, 18 (90%) showed cypermethrin resistance and 1 (5%) showed amitraz resistance. Of the 20 received groups, 19 (95%) showed cypermethrin resistance and 2 (10%) showed amitraz resistance. The AE of cypermethrin was found to be >95%, 85-94%, and 55-64%, respectively, in 4 (57.1%), 2 (28.6%), and 1 (14.3%) of 7 reference groups, collected in the 1997-2001 period. The AE of amitraz was >95% in all of those groups. Among the groups of specimens received for analysis in that period, the AE of amitraz was >95% in 6 (85.71%) and 75-84% in 1 (14.28%). R. (B.) microplus resistance to acaricides is increasing on the Santa Catarina Plateau.	1	pesticide
22847768	Thiamethoxam acts as a target-site synergist of spinosad in resistant strains of Frankliniella occidentalis.	BACKGROUND: Previous studies have suggested that the resistance mechanism towards spinosad in Frankliniella occidentalis (Pergande) is an altered target site. Like the neonicotinoids, the spinosyns act on nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in insects, but at a distinct site. The changes in nAChRs related to spinosad resistance in thrips might involve interaction with neonicotinoids. In this study, the efficacy of spinosad and neonicotinoids, alone and in combination, was evaluated in susceptible and spinosad-resistant thrips strains. RESULTS: The neonicotinoids tested were imidacloprid, thiacloprid, acetamiprid, thiamethoxam and clothianidin. No cross-resistance was shown between spinosad and any of the neonicotinoids. However, an increased toxicity was observed when a mixture of spinosad with thiamethoxam or clothianidin was tested. No synergism was found in the susceptible strains. The more spinosad-resistant the thrips strain, the stronger was the synergism. CONCLUSION: Data suggest that spinosad and thiamethoxam may interact at the nAChRs in spinosad-resistant thrips, facilitating enhanced insecticidal action.	1	pesticide
22854744	Managing metolachlor and atrazine leaching losses using lignite fly ash.	Application of low cost amendment for pesticide retention in soil is an important area of research in environmental sciences. The present study reports the potential of coal fly ash (Inderprastha and Badarpur), a waste from thermal power stations, for retaining soil applied metolachlor and atrazine within the application zone. Both the fly ashes were highly effective in reducing the leaching losses of metolachlor and atrazine and at 2% and 5% fly ash amendment levels the herbicides were retained in the top 15 cm profile of the column. However, fly ashes varied in their capacity in reducing the downward mobility of herbicides, as the Inderprastha fly ash was more effective than the Badarpur fly ash. Although fly ash contained heavy metals like Cr, Cu or Pb, but they were not detected in the leachate. Also, concentration of other metals like Zn, Mn and Fe in leachate decreased after fly ash amendment. Results of this study have implications in reducing the leaching losses of these herbicides in agricultural soils.	1	pesticide
22893976	A screen-printed, amperometric biosensor for the determination of organophosphorus pesticides in water samples.	An amperometric biosensor based on screen-printed electrodes (SPEs) was developed for the determination of organophosphorus pesticides in water samples. The extent of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) deactivation was determined and quantified for pesticide concentrations in water samples. An enzyme immobilization adsorption procedure and polyacrylamide gel matrix polymerization were used for fabrication of the biosensor, with minimal losses in enzyme activity. The optimal conditions for enzyme catalytic reaction on the SPEs surfaces were acetylthiocholine chloride (ATChCl) concentration of 5 mmol/L, pH 7 and reaction time of 4 min. The detection limits for three organophosphorus pesticides (dichlorvos, monocrotophs and parathion) were in the range of 4 to 7 microg/L when an AChE amount of 0.1 U was used for immobilization.	1	pesticide
22898623	Truncated transcripts of nicotinic acetylcholine subunit gene Bdα6 are associated with spinosad resistance in Bactrocera dorsalis.	Spinosad-resistance mechanisms of Bactrocera dorsalis, one of the most important agricultural pests worldwide, were investigated. Resistance levels to spinosad in a B. dorsalis strain from Taiwan were more than 2000-fold, but showed no cross resistance to imidacloprid or fipronil. Combined biochemical and synergistic data indicated that target-site insensitivity is the major resistance component. The gene encoding the nAChR subunit alpha 6 (Bdα6), the putative molecular target of spinosad, was isolated using PCR and RACE techniques. The full-length cDNA of Bdα6 from spinosad-susceptible strains had an open reading frame of 1467 bp and codes for a typical nAChR subunit. Two isoforms of exon 3 (3a and 3b) and exon 8 (8a and 8b), and four full-length splicing variants were found in the susceptible strain. All transcripts from the spinosad-resistant strain were truncated and coded for apparently non-functional Bdα6. Genetic linkage analysis further associated spinosad-resistance phenotype with the truncated Bdα6 forms. This finding is consistent with a previous study in Plutella xylostella. Small deletions and insertions and consequent premature stop codons in exon 7 were associated with the truncated transcripts at the cDNA level. Analysis of genomic DNA sequences (intron 2 and exons 3-6) failed to detect exon 5 in resistant flies. In addition, a mutation in Bdα6 intron 2, just before the truncated/mis-splicing region and in same location with a mutation previously reported in the Pxylα6 gene, was identified in the resistant flies. RNA editing was investigated but was not found to be associated with resistance. While the demonstration of truncated transcripts causing resistance was outlined, the mechanism responsible for generating truncated transcripts remains unknown.	1	pesticide
22899460	Pesticide occurrence and aquatic benchmark exceedances in urban surface waters and sediments in three urban areas of California, USA, 2008-2011.	Urban pesticide use has a direct impact on surface water quality. To determine the extent of pesticide contamination, the California Department of Pesticide Regulation initiated a multi-area urban monitoring program in 2008. Water and sediment samples were collected at sites unaffected by agricultural inputs in three areas: Sacramento (SAC), San Francisco Bay (SFB), and Orange County (OC). Samples were analyzed for up to 64 pesticides or degradates. Multiple detections were common; 50 % of the water samples contained five or more pesticides. Statewide, the most frequently detected insecticides in water were bifenthrin, imidacloprid, fipronil, fipronil sulfone, fipronil desulfinyl, carbaryl, and malathion. Bifenthrin was the most common contaminant in sediment samples. Key differences by area: OC had more pesticides detected than SAC or SFB with higher concentrations of fipronil, whereas SAC had higher concentrations of bifenthrin. The most frequently detected herbicides were 2,4-D, triclopyr, dicamba, diuron, and pendimethalin. Key differences by area: OC and SFB had higher concentrations of triclopyr, whereas SAC had higher concentrations of 2,4-D and dicamba. Detection frequency, number of pesticides per sample, and pesticide concentration increased during rainstorm events. In water samples, all of the bifenthrin, malathion, fipronil, permethrin, and λ-cyhalothrin detections, and most of the fipronil sulfone and cyfluthrin detections were above their lowest US EPA aquatic benchmark. Diuron was the only herbicide that was detected above its lowest benchmark. Based on the number of pesticides and exceedances of aquatic benchmarks or the high number of sediment toxicity units, pesticides are abundant in California surface waters.	1	pesticide
22899726	Organochlorine pesticide levels and risk of Alzheimer's disease in north Indian population.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) could result from a multifactorial process involving both genetic predisposition and exposure to environmental factors like pesticides. A case control study of 70 patients of AD and 75 controls was done to examine the association between organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) and risk of AD. OCPs (hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH), aldrin, dieldrin, endosulfan, pp'-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (pp'-DDE), op'-DDE, pp'-dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (pp'-DDT), op'-DDT, pp'-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane (pp'-DDD) and op'-DDD) were extracted from blood and quantitatively estimated using gas chromatography. A Mann-Whitney U test revealed significant difference in β-HCH levels (U = 1237.00, W = 4087.00, z = -6.296, p = 0.000, r = -0.71), dieldrin levels (U = 1449.00, W = 4299.00, z = -5.809, p = 0.000, r = -0.68) and pp'-DDE levels (U = 2062.00, W = 4912.00, z = -2.698, p = 0.007, r = -0.59) between AD patients and controls. In conclusion, this study supports epidemiological studies that associate exposure to pesticides with increased risk of AD, and we identified the specific pesticides β-HCH, dieldrin and pp'-DDE that are associated with the risk of AD in the north Indian population. However, further research is needed to establish the potential role of these OCPs as an etiologic agent for AD case.	1	pesticide
22904051	Coselection of cadmium and benzalkonium chloride resistance in conjugative transfers from nonpathogenic Listeria spp. to other Listeriae.	Resistance to the quaternary ammonium disinfectant benzalkonium chloride (BC) may be an important contributor to the ability of Listeria spp. to persist in the processing plant environment. Although a plasmid-borne disinfectant resistance cassette (bcrABC) has been identified in Listeria monocytogenes, horizontal transfer of these genes has not been characterized. Nonpathogenic Listeria spp. such as L. innocua and L. welshimeri are more common than L. monocytogenes in food processing environments and may contribute to the dissemination of disinfectant resistance genes in listeriae, including L. monocytogenes. In this study, we investigated conjugative transfer of resistance to BC and to cadmium from nonpathogenic Listeria spp. to other nonpathogenic listeriae, as well as to L. monocytogenes. BC-resistant L. welshimeri and L. innocua harboring bcrABC, along with the cadmium resistance determinant cadA2, were able to transfer resistance to other nonpathogenic listeriae as well as to L. monocytogenes of diverse serotypes, including strains from the 2011 cantaloupe outbreak. Transfer among nonpathogenic Listeria spp. was noticeably higher at 25°C than at 37°C, whereas acquisition of resistance by L. monocytogenes was equally efficient at 25 and 37°C. When the nonpathogenic donors were resistant to both BC and cadmium, acquisition of cadmium resistance was an effective surrogate for transfer of resistance to BC, suggesting coselection between these resistance attributes. The results suggest that nonpathogenic Listeria spp. may behave as reservoirs for disinfectant and heavy metal resistance genes for other listeriae, including the pathogenic species L. monocytogenes.	1	pesticide
22928293	Acute toxicities and sublethal effects of some conventional insecticides on Trichogramma chilonis (Hymenoptera: Trichogrammatidae).	The acute toxicity of 10 conventional insecticides to adult of Trichogramma chilonis Ishii (Hymenoptera: Trichogrammatidae) was bioassayed by membrane method, and then their sublethal effects on the parasitoid were evaluated in the laboratory. Based on sublethal concentration (LC30) values at 8 h after treatment, we determined that adult T. chilonis were the most susceptible to chlorfenapyr, followed by fipronil, spinosad, avermectins, beta-cypermethrin, and cartap, with lethal concentration (LC)30 values of 0.3133, 0.3269, 1.5408, 3.2961, 6.1469, and 9.021 mg/liter, respectively. The field-recommended concentrations of chlorfluazuron, indoxacarb, Bacillus thuringiensis, and tebufenozide caused <30% mortality of treated adults; therefore, they were used to evaluate sublethal effects on the parasitoid. After treatment with sublethal concentration of fipronil and avermectins, the longevity of treated females (1.2 and 1.6 d) was significantly shortened and fecundity (34.7 and 1.6) was remarkably decreased; consequently, the life-table parameters (R0, r(m), lambda, and T) of T. chilonis were statistically lower than those in the control. Cartap and spinosad also reduced longevity (8 and 7.9 d) and fecundity (110.77 and 117.2) of treated adults, but cartap enhanced the female percentage of F1 offspring (61.6%), resulting a statistical higher R0, r(m), and lambda of treated T. chilonis. In contrast, chlorfluazuron and tebufenozide increased longevity (16.4 and 15.4 d) and fecundity (248 and 256.9) of treated adults but slightly decreased the female percentage of F1 offspring (31.4 and 38.1%). Although chlorfenapyr showed no adverse influence on longevity and fecundity, it remarkably reduced the female percentage of F1 offspring (13.5%), leading to a lower R0, r(m), and lambda of treated T. chilonis. Indoxacarb, B. thuringiensis, and beta-cypermethrin had no obvious sublethal effects on the longevity and fecundity of treated adults. Based on these results, we consider B. thuringienesis, chlorfluazuron, indoxacarb, beta-cypermethrin, and tebufenozide safe to T. chilonis, suggesting that these insecticides are compatible with this parasitoid when being used in the field. However, fipronil, chlorfenapyr, spinosad, and avermectins were very harmful to T. chilonis. Timing of application of these insecticides was critical.	1	pesticide
22928322	Lack of fitness costs associated with acetamiprid resistance in Bemisia tabaci (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae).	Sweetpotato whitefly, Bemisia tabaci (Gennadius) (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae), is a devastating pest that can cause severe damage to a range of crops by direct feeding and by plant virus transmission. Because of indiscriminate use of insecticides, this whitefly has developed resistance to several insecticides, including neonicotinoids. Our objectives were to determine fitness components affected by acetamiprid resistance in B. tabaci. Assay results showed that selection with acetamiprid had removed heterozygotes from the field population because the survival rate of the resistant population was significantly greater than that of the field population at a very high dose. Comparison of various life traits between the acetamiprid-selected (Aceta-SEL) population and three other populations showed that the numbers of eggs laid by acetamiprid Aceta-SEL population were significantly lower compared with that of other populations but that the proportions of eggs hatched were significantly higher. However, the time taken by nymphal stages of the Aceta-SEL population to develop was significantly higher than that of the susceptible populations. The intrinsic rate of increase, net reproductive rate, mean generation time, and doubling time of Aceta-SEL was significantly higher than Lab-PK and UNSEL populations, but the growth index was similar for all populations. The growth index and high intrinsic value of Aceta-SEL population suggest that the resistance allele may not have detrimental impact. The lack of fitness costs in B. tabaci could promote the rapid development of resistance to acetamiprid and other neonicotinoids. This resistance could threaten the sustainability of whitefly management program on genetically engineered cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) where neonicotinoids are being sprayed to manage sucking pests in the field.	1	pesticide
22939138	Biosensor based on atemoya peroxidase immobilised on modified nanoclay for glyphosate biomonitoring.	A biosensor based on atemoya peroxidase immobilised on modified nanoclay was developed for the determination of glyphosate by the enzyme inhibition method. The inhibitor effect of the biocide results in a decrease in the current response of the hydroquinone that was used as a phenolic substrate to obtain the base signal. The biosensor was constructed using graphite powder, multiwalled carbon nanotubes, peroxidase immobilised on nanoclay and mineral oil. Square-wave voltammetry was utilised for the optimisation and application of the biosensor, and several parameters were investigated to determine the optimum experimental conditions. The best performance was obtained using a 0.1 mol L(-1) phosphate buffer solution (pH 7.0), 1.9×10(-4) mol L(-1) hydrogen peroxide, a frequency of 30 Hz, a pulse amplitude of 50 mV and a scan increment of 4 mV. The glyphosate concentration response was linear between 0.10 and 4.55 mg L(-1) with a detection limit of 30 μg L(-1). The average recovery of glyphosate from spiked water samples ranged from 94.9 to 108.9%. The biosensor remained stable for a period of eight weeks.	1	pesticide
22939157	Magnetic solid-phase extraction of five pyrethroids from environmental water samples followed by ultrafast liquid chromatography analysis.	In this study, the polystyrene-coated magnetic nanoparticles (MNPs/PSt) were successfully prepared and characterized by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, transmission electron microscopy and vibrating sample magnetometry. The as-prepared MNPs/PSt were used as the adsorbent in magnetic solid phase extraction of five pyrethroids, including lambda-cyhalothrin, deltamethrin, esfenvalerate, permethrin, bifenthrin, in environmental water samples. The five pyrethroids were determined by ultra fast liquid chromatography-ultraviolet spectrometry. The influencing factors, including amount of MNPs/Pst, extraction time, pH value, type and volume of desorption solvent and desorption time, were examined and optimized. The extraction recoveries obtained with merely 50mg of MNPs/Pst were very satisfactory. The whole extraction process could be completed within 0.5h. The MNPs/PSt can be reused after an easy washing process. Thus, a simple, green, economical, time saving and effective method for pyrethroids analysis in environmental water samples was established. A high enrichment factor of 500 was achieved and the limits of detection for lambda-cyhalothrin, deltamethrin, esfenvalerate, permethrin, bifenthrin were 0.015±0.001 ng mL(-1), 0.012±0.001 ng mL(-1), 0.026±0.001 ng mL(-1), 0.020±0.001 ng mL(-1), 0.013±0.001 ng mL(-1), respectively. Recoveries obtained by analyzing spiked water samples at three concentration levels (0.100±0.001 ng mL(-1), 1.000±0.001 ng mL(-1), 10.000±0.001 ng mL(-1)) were between 78.97±8.38% and 96.05±8.38%. The standard curves for the five pyrethroids showed good linearity with the correlation coefficients in the range of 0.9994-0.9999. The intra-day and inter-day precision were satisfactory with the RSDs in the range of 2.05-5.52% and 2.73-8.38%, respectively.	1	pesticide
22947255	Conductive-diamond electrochemical oxidation of chlorpyrifos in wastewater and identification of its main degradation products by LC-TOFMS.	The electrochemical transformation of the organophosphorous insecticide chlorpyrifos (CPF) was investigated in wastewater. The oxidation of CPF was carried out in a single-compartment electrochemical flow cell working under batch operation mode, using diamond-based material as anode and stainless steel as cathode. In order to evaluate its persistence and degradation pathway, two different concentration levels (1.0 mg L(-1) and 0.1 mg L(-1)) were studied. Liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry was used for evaluation of the initial and electrolyzed solutions. The identification of CPF transformation products was performed by liquid chromatography-time of flight-mass spectrometry (LC-TOFMS). Results showed that CPF is completely removed at the end of treatment time. Analysis by LC-TOFMS allowed the identification of six degradation products (with Mw 154, 170, 197, 305 321 and 333). Three of the identified intermediates (Mw 170, 305 and 321) were completely removed at the end of electrolysis time. Interestingly, the formation of diethyl 3,5,6-trichloropyridin-2yl phosphate (chlorpyrifos oxon) and 3,5,6-trichloropyridin-2-ol was also found in previous reported degradation pathways using different degradation technologies.	1	pesticide
22947518	Sex dimorphic behaviors as markers of neuroendocrine disruption by environmental chemicals: the case of chlorpyrifos.	The complexity of the neuroendocrine level of investigation requires the assessment of behavioral patterns that extend beyond the reproductive functions, which are age- and sex-specific in rodents, described by defined clusters of behavioral items regulated by genetic, hormonal, and epigenetic factors. The study of social behavior in laboratory rodents reveals sex-dimorphic effects of environmental chemicals that may be undetected either by a traditional neurotoxicological approach or referring to the classical definition of endocrine disrupting chemicals. Here we review data on the neurobehavioral effects of developmental exposure to the non-persistent organophosphorus insecticide chlorpyrifos, whose neurotoxic activity at low doses is currently a matter of concern for children's health. In mice exposed to chlorpyrifos in utero and/or in early development social/emotional responses are differently affected in the two sexes in parallel with sex-dependent interference on hypothalamic neuroendocrine pathways regulating social behaviors (vasopressin, oxytocin, and steroid regulated systems). Through the analysis of complex sex-dimorphic behavioral patterns we show that neurotoxic and endocrine disrupting activities of CPF overlap. This widely diffused organophosphorus pesticide might thus be considered as a neuroendocrine disruptor possibly representing a risk factor for sex-biased neurodevelopmental disorders in children.	1	pesticide
22967356	Atypical scabies presenting as annular patches.	Scabies is a common parasitic disease that can be recognized by the development of itchy lesions and a predilection for certain places on the body. It may infrequently present with patchy lesions. We report a patient with well-defined annular patches. Histopathology showed an egg of the scabies mite in the epidermis. Treatment with permethrin cream resulted in complete resolution of her disease. 	1	pesticide
22967568	Simultaneous determination of pesticides and 5-hydroxymethylfurfural in honey by the modified QuEChERS method and liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry.	Nowadays, bee products are being produced in an environment polluted by different sources of contamination, such as pesticides, which can be transported by honey bees to the hive and incorporated into honey. In addition, the increasing consumption of honey has demanded efficient quality control for this product. In this study, the determination of the pesticides fipronil, imidacloprid, thiamethoxam, dimethoate, carbendazin, tebuconazole, amitraz, τ-fluvalinate and 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) which are used as indicators of honey quality, was carried out simultaneously. For the sample preparation, the optimized QuEChERS method was used and the determinations were done by LC-APCI-MS/MS. The LOQs of the method ranged between 0.005 and 1.0 mg kg(-1). For the recovery calculations and method evaluation a working curve was drawn. All the analytical curves showed r values higher than 0.99. The recoveries ranged between 70% and 112%, with RSD lower than 20% for all compounds. The matrix effect was evaluated, and most of the compounds showed signal enrichment. The applicability of the method for honey from different flowers was verified, and the method showed robustness and recoveries in the range 70-120% established for all compounds in samples belonging to different blossoms. HMF was detected in all samples, with concentrations ranging between 4.6 and 51.7 mg kg(-1); it was below the maximum concentration allowed by the legislation.	1	pesticide
22987571	Single-step modified QuEChERS for determination of chlorothalonil in shallot (Allium ascalonicum) using GC-μECD and confirmation via mass spectrometry.	A single extraction method was developed for chlorothalonil in shallot using gas chromatography with an electron capture detector (GC-μECD). Samples were extracted with single-step modified quick, easy, cheap, effective, rugged, and safe (QuEChERS) method using ethyl acetate as an extraction solvent. Significant matrix effects were observed, and the calibration curve was constructed from the matrix. The linearity of the analytical response across the studied range of concentrations (0.01-1.00 mg/L) was excellent, obtaining a correlation coefficient (r(2) ) of 0.996. >0.996. Recovery studies were carried out on spiked shallot blank samples, at two concentration levels (0.4 and 2.0 mg/kg) with three replicates performed at each level. Mean recoveries of 97.2-104.9% with RSDs of 1.3-2.7% were obtained. The method is demonstrated to be suitable for the determination of chlorothalonil in shallot. The dissipation rates of chlorothalonil were described using first-order kinetics, and its half-life was 2.8 days. Based on the dissipation pattern of the pesticide residues, the pre-harvest residue limit (PHRL) was also calculated. Residues were confirmed via mass spectrometry.	1	pesticide
23006011	Advantages of atmospheric pressure chemical ionization in gas chromatography tandem mass spectrometry: pyrethroid insecticides as a case study.	Gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (GC/MS) has been extensively applied for determination of volatile, nonpolar, compounds in many applied fields like food safety, environment, or toxicology. The wide majority of methods reported use electron ionization (EI), which may result in extensive fragmentation of analytes compromising selectivity and sensitivity. This might also complicate the application of tandem MS due to lack of specific/abundant precursor ions. Pyrethroids are examples of compounds with this behavior. In this work, the potential of atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI), a softer form of ionization, combined with GC and a triple quadrupole mass analyzer was investigated, taking pyrethroids as a case study and their determination in fruit and vegetables as example application. Ionization and fragmentation behavior of eight pyrethroids (bifenthrin, cyfluthrin, cypermethrin, permethrin, λ-cyhalothrin, fluvalinate, fenvalerate, and deltamethrin) by APCI were studied. The formation of a highly abundant (quasi) molecular ion was the main goal because of the enhanced selectivity when used as precursor ion in tandem MS. The addition of water as a modifier was tested to promote the generation of protonated molecules, resulting in notable improvement of sensitivity and selectivity for most compounds. The excellent detectability (low detection limits (LODs) <20 fg achieved) when using APCI combined with state-of-the-art tandem MS was demonstrated for real samples. Additionally, matrix effects were evaluated in terms of signal enhancement/suppression. Depending on the matrix, different degrees of suppression were observed, on average reducing the signal in matrix to 55% of that in solvent. The results presented in this paper demonstrate the potential of APCI as new source for GC/MS that could be applied to other analytical problems apart from those illustrated in this work.	1	pesticide
23007227	Direct and indirect effects of imidacloprid on fecundity and abundance of Eurytetranychus buxi (Acari: Tetranychidae) on boxwoods.	Populations of spider mites often reach high levels on urban plants. In many cases, insecticide applications targeting other herbivores trigger outbreaks of spider mites. Recently, elevated populations of spider mites on a diversity of plants in urban landscapes have been associated with applications of imidacloprid, a neonicotinoid insecticide. Imidacloprid has also been linked to increased fecundity in two species of spider mites. In this study, we evaluated the indirect (plant-mediated) and direct impact of imidacloprid on fecundity and longevity of Eurytetranychus buxi Garman (Acari: Tetranychidae), feeding on boxwoods, Buxus sempervirens L. Moreover, we compared the abundance of E. buxi on imidacloprid-treated and untreated boxwoods in the landscape and a greenhouse to determine if changes in the fecundity of mites exposed to imidacloprid were linked to outbreaks of E. buxi. We found that females consuming imidacloprid-treated plants laid more eggs than females feeding on untreated boxwoods, while their longevity remained unchanged. Fecundity was not affected, however, when spider mites were directly sprayed with imidacloprid and consumed foliage of untreated boxwoods. Furthermore, populations of E. buxi were greater on boxwoods treated with imidacloprid in the landscape and greenhouse. On landscape boxwoods, elevated populations of E. buxi persisted into a second year. We also observed general lack of predators of spider mites on treated and untreated boxwoods in the field suggesting that imidacloprid's eruptive effect on E. buxi stems more from indirect changes in plant quality than from a loss of top-down regulation from E. buxi's natural enemies.	1	pesticide
23025182	Efficacy of residual insecticide Biflex AquaMax applied as barrier treatments for managing mosquito populations in suburban residential properties in southeast Queensland.	The pyrethroid insecticide Biflex AquaMax (bifenthrin) was evaluated for its ability to suppress coastal mosquito populations in a controlled suburban backyard study in Mango Hill, Queensland, Australia. The insecticide was applied to perimeter vegetation, fencing in selected backyards, or both, and mosquito populations were monitored weekly from 3 wk before to 8 wk after treatment (11 wk total) by using CDC miniature light traps and human bait landing rates. In addition, bioassays were conducted on vegetation and wood surfaces to monitor residual activity. The two most common species in light trap collections were the Ross River Virus vectors Aedes vigilax (Skuse) and Culex annulirostris Skuse. After treatment, Ae. vigilax populations in treated properties were significantly lower (75-90%) compared with untreated properties. In contrast, Cx. annulirotris, Coquillettidia xanthogaster (Edwards) and Mansonia uniformis (Theobald) populations were not impacted by the treatment. Bioassays revealed that the product gave better residual mortality when applied to vegetation (94.6 +/- 11.8%) than wooden surfaces (75.9 +/- 29.1%) during the 8-wk posttreatment period.	1	pesticide
23026557	First report of fipronil resistance in Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus of Mexico.	Five strains of Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus collected from Tamaulipas Mexico were tested for resistance against several classes of acaricides commonly used. All were resistant to fipronil. Four of five were co-resistant to permethrin and coumaphos in addition to being resistant to fipronil. One strain, El Zamora was found multi-resistant to permethrin, coumaphos, fipronil, and amitraz. Selection with fipronil for 3 generations produced a resistance ratio of 8.3 and 9.4 at the LC(50) and the LC(99) estimates, respectively. Permethrin resistance in El Zamora was possibly linked to elevated esterase (CZEST9) and could be a contributing factor of resistance to fipronil. The implications of resistance for the control of the southern cattle tick in the future are discussed.	1	pesticide
23036741	The contribution of human small intestine to chlorpyrifos biotransformation.	Despite the oral intake is the major route of exposure to chlorpyrifos for the general population, few data are available on human intestine biotransformation. In this study the contribution of chlorpyrifos (CPF) metabolism in human small intestine was investigated in microsomes from duodenum (HDM) and ileum/jejunum (HS2M) from 11 individual donors. Samples were characterized for testosterone hydroxylated metabolite formation and CYP content quantification by means of Western blotting. The two methods gave consistent results, evidencing the presence of CY3A4 and its-related activity in 10/11 samples, among which one showed also the presence of CYP2C9. Analogously, although with high interindividual variability (about 10 fold), CPF bioactivation to chlorpyrifos-oxon (CPFO) was observed in 10/11 HDM: intrinsic clearance highest value was 0.75 pmolCPFO/(mgproteinminμM). Detoxication to 3,5,6-trichloropyrin-2-ol formation was negligible. The comparison between HDM and HS2M indicates that most CPF bioactivation was confined in the duodenum, declining toward the distal ileum. Results suggest that following oral exposure, the small intestine CPF bioactivation, although much lower when compared to the total hepatic metabolism, could play a role in the pre-systemic CPF clearance, with CPFO transported into the lumen by the efflux P-glycoprotein and further metabolized by esterases.	1	pesticide
23074913	Activity of alkanediol alkanoates against pathogenic plant fungi Rhizoctonia solani and Sclerotium rolfsii.	Thirty known dialkanoates of ethylene, propylene and diethylene glycols were synthesized by reacting the glycols with acyl chlorides and their structures confirmed by IR, NMR and mass spectral analyses. They exhibited significant antifungal activity against two phytopathogenic fungi Rhizoctonia solani Kuehn and Sclerotium rolfsii Sacc in a dose dependent manner. Propylene glycol dipentanoate was the most active against R. solani. followed by diethylene glycol dibutanoate and ethylene glycol dibutanoate. Against S. rolfsii ethylene glycol diheptanoate was found to be most active followed by diethylene glycol diisobutanoate As compared to the standard reference benomyl (EC50 5.16 microg/mL), the potential alkanediol dialkanoates showed EC50 in the range of 33 - 60 microg/mL.	1	pesticide
23077589	Field evolved resistance in Helicoverpa armigera (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) to Bacillus thuringiensis toxin Cry1Ac in Pakistan.	Helicoverpa armigera (Hübner) is one of the most destructive pests of several field and vegetable crops, with indiscriminate use of insecticides contributing to multiple instances of resistance. In the present study we assessed whether H. armigera had developed resistance to Bt cotton and compared the results with several conventional insecticides. Furthermore, the genetics of resistance was also investigated to determine the inheritance to Cry1Ac resistance. To investigate the development of resistance to Bt cotton, and selected foliar insecticides, H. armigera populations were sampled in 2010 and 2011 in several cotton production regions in Pakistan. The resistance ratios (RR) for Cry1Ac, chlorpyrifos, profenofos, cypermethrin, spinosad, indoxacarb, abamectin and deltamethrin were 580-fold, 320-, 1110-, 1950-, 200-, 380, 690, and 40-fold, respectively, compared with the laboratory susceptible (Lab-PK) population. Selection of the field collected population with Cry1Ac in 2010 for five generations increased RR to 5440-fold. The selection also increased RR for deltamethrin, chlorpyrifos, profenofos, cypermethrin, spinosad, indoxacarb, abamectin to 125-folds, 650-, 2840-, 9830-, 370-, 3090-, 1330-fold. The estimated LC(50s) for reciprocal crosses were 105 µg/ml (Cry1Ac-SEL female × Lab-PK male) and 81 g µg/ml (Lab-PK female × Cry1Ac-SEL male) suggesting that the resistance to Cry1Ac was autosomal; the degree of dominance (D(LC)) was 0.60 and 0.57 respectively. Mixing of enzyme inhibitors significantly decreased resistance to Cry1Ac suggesting that the resistance to Cry1Ac and other insecticides tested in the present study was primarily metabolic. Resistance to Cry1Ac was probably due to a single but unstable factor suggesting that crop rotation with non-Bt cotton or other crops could reduce the selection pressure for H. armigera and improve the sustainability of Bt cotton.	1	pesticide
23099312	Advancements in the treatment of head lice in pediatrics.	Head lice infestations occur commonly each year in children of all socioeconomic statuses. However, head lice have become more of a nuisance as resistance to first-line agents, such as permethrin 1% and pyrethrins, has increased. Newer topical products provide unique mechanisms of action without current signs of resistance. As with older agents, proper application of products must be emphasized to ensure that treatment is effective. In addition, nonpharmacologic measures should be taken to avoid reinfestation in the patient and to prevent the spread of lice to close personal contacts.	1	pesticide
23113111	Removal of malathion insecticide from water by employing acoustical wave technology.	BACKGROUND: Organophosphorus pesticides are one of the most prevalent usages for pest control in the country. Such pesticides enter into water sources by different routes. Since drinking of contaminated water at the higher doses than the standard level, may causes undesirable effects to human health and ecosystem. The object of this research was to investigate the effect of various parameters including time, power and concentration on sonodecomposition of malathion insecticide in the water. METHODS: The sonochemical degradation of malathion was investigated using acoustic wave technology (AWT). AWT with 130 kHz was used to study the decomposition of insecticide solution. Samples were analyzed using HPLC at different intervals times. Effectiveness of AWT at different times (20, 40, 60, 80, 100, and 120 minutes), concentrations of malathion at 2, 4 and 8 mg/L as well as powers of device (300W, 400W, 500W) are compared. RESULTS: These findings showed that the degradation of the malathion insecticide at lower concentrations was greater in comparison to higher concentrations. Also, there was positive correlation between power increasing and the ability to malathion degradation CONCLUSION: The sonodegradation of malathion at different concentrations and powers was successfully achieved. It has been shown that acoustical wave technology can be used to reduce the concentration of dissolved insecticide using high frequency.	1	pesticide
23128641	Impact of some herbicides on the biomass activity in biological treatment plants and biodegradability enhancement by a photo-Fenton process.	In recent years, the use of agrochemicals has increased because they are essential for profitable agricultural production. Herbicides are heavily demanded compounds and among these, the most marketed are 2,4-D, atrazine and acetochlor. They have characteristics that can cause problems to humans and the environment. Therefore, it is necessary to design systems that can reduce these compounds to harmless molecules. This work aims at evaluating the possibility of incorporating these herbicides into degradable effluents in a biological treatment system, without reducing its efficiency. For this purpose, studies of organic matter degradability in the presence of these agrochemicals were performed. A synthetic effluent based on glucose and mineral salts was inoculated with microorganisms. Glucose consumption and biomass concentration were assessed. Subsequently, preliminary studies were performed to test the viability of degradation of the most harmful compound with an advanced oxidation process (AOP). The results showed that the incorporation of these herbicides into degradable effluents in a biological treatment system has a negative impact on microorganisms. Therefore, the application of an AOP, such as the Fenton or photo-Fenton processes, prior to a biological treatment was found to degrade these substances to simpler and less toxic molecules.	1	pesticide
23130847	Volatilization modeling of two herbicides from soil in a wind tunnel experiment under varying humidity conditions.	Volatilization of pesticides from the bare soil surface is drastically reduced when the soil is under dry conditions (i.e., water content lower than the permanent wilting point). This effect is caused by the hydrated mineral surfaces that become available as additional sorption sites under dry conditions. However, established volatilization models do not explicitly consider the hydrated mineral surfaces as an independent sorption compartment and cannot correctly cover the moisture effect on volatilization. Here we integrated the existing mechanistic understanding of sorption of organic compounds to mineral surfaces and its dependence on the hydration status into a simple volatilization model. The resulting model was tested with reported experimental data for two herbicides from a wind tunnel experiment under various well-defined humidity conditions. The required equilibrium sorption coefficients of triallate and trifluralin to the mineral surfaces, K(min/air), at 60% relative humidity were fitted to experimental data and extrapolated to other humidity conditions. The model captures the general trend of the volatilization in different humidity scenarios. The results reveal that it is essential to have high quality input data for K(min/air), the available specific surface area (SSA), the penetration depth of the applied pesticide solution, and the humidity conditions in the soil. The model approach presented here in combination with an improved description of the humidity conditions under dry conditions can be integrated into existing volatilization models that already work well for humid conditions but still lack the mechanistically based description of the volatilization process under dry conditions.	1	pesticide
23154138	Persistent organic pollutants and stable isotopes in pinnipeds from King George Island, Antarctica.	In the present work, fat, skin, liver and muscle samples from Leptonychotes weddellii (Weddell seal, n=2 individuals), Lobodon carcinophagus (crabeater seal, n=2), Arctocephalus gazella (Antarctic fur seal, n=3) and Mirounga leonina (southern elephant seal, n=1) were collected from King George Island, Antarctica, and analysed for POPs (PCBs, organochlorine pesticides and PBDEs) and stable isotopes (δ¹³C and δ¹⁵N in all tissues but fat). PBDEs could be found in only one sample (L. weddellii fat). Generally, PCBs (from 74 to 523 ng g⁻¹ lw), DDTs (from 14 to 168 ng g⁻¹ lw) and chlordanes (from 9 to 78 ng g⁻¹ lw) were the prevailing compounds. Results showed a clear stratification in accordance with ecological data. Nonetheless, stable isotope analyses provide a deeper insight into fluctuations due to migrations and nutritional stress. Correlation between δ(15)N and pollutants suggests, to some degree, a considerable ability to metabolize and/or excrete the majority of them.	1	pesticide
23156178	Susceptibility of Cimex lectularius (Hemiptera: Cimicidae) to pyrethroid insecticides and to insecticidal dusts with or without pyrethroid insecticides.	Relative increases of bed bug, Cimex lectularius L., populations are probably due in large measure to their resistance to pyrethroids, which have been used extensively against urban pests. A Connecticut population of bed bugs was assessed for sensitivity to pyrethroids and exposed to commonly-used commercial insecticides applied to various substrates on which the residues were allowed to age for 0-24 wk. Type I and type II pyrethroids differed in toxicity when applied at a high dosage (1 microg) per bed bug. Some type II pyrethroids (cyfluthrin, lambda-cyhalothrin, cis-cypermethrin, and deltamethrin) caused > 80% mortality, whereas exposure to type I pyrethroids caused < 5% mortality over 72 h (with one exception, pyrethrins caused 23% mortality). Dust products were not affected by residue aging; mortality response over time of exposure closely fit (R2 > 0.95) an exponential rise to a maximum model from which the survival half-life (S1/2) was calculated directly. Tempo Dust (Bayer Environmental Science, Montvale, NJ) killed bed bugs relatively quickly, as did Syloid 244 (Grace Davison, Columbia, MD) and Drione (Bayer Environmental Science, Montvale, NJ) on hardboard and mattress fabric substrates (S1/2 < 1 d); DeltaDust (Bayer Environmental Science, Montvale, NJ) provided a relatively slow kill (S1/2 approximately equal to 3.5 d). The sprayable pyrethroids, Cyonara 9.7 (Insecticide Control solutions, Pasadena, TX) and D-Force HPX Aerosol 0.06% (Waterbury Companies, Waterbury, CT), displayed reduced residual toxicity as they aged; the mortality was < 50% on some substrates after 4 d. Desiccant dusts, with their physical mode of action and long residual activity, appear to be superior to sprayable pyrethroid products for killing bed bugs.	1	pesticide
23176810	Carbofuran concentrations in blood, bile and tissues in fatal cases of homicide and suicide.	Carbofuran is a broad spectrum carbamate insecticide which inhibits cholinesterase. In the recent past several carbofuran related homicide and suicide cases were reported in Sri Lanka. The concentration of carbofuran found in blood, bile and/or tissues in eight fatal cases were presented in this paper. Liquid-liquid extraction with chloroform was carried out with tissue and beverage samples while blood and bile samples were roller mixed with n-hexane and finally extracted into acetonitrile. Qualitative analysis of carbofuran in biological specimens was carried out using TLC and GC-MS. Presence of carbofuran and its metabolite carbofuran phenol were confirmed by GC-MS. The quantitative analysis was carried out using a validated method where Zorbax Eclips XDB C18 column was used in HPLC with photo diode array detector and GC-MS. In blood, bile, liver and stomach contents/stomach and contents both carbofuran and carbofuran phenol were identified, while in certain cases only the metabolite, carbofuran phenol was identified in blood. The carbofuran levels ranged from 0.4 to 18 μg/ml in blood, 0.4 to 60 μg/ml in bile, 2.2 μg/g in liver and 0.3 to 300 μg/g in stomach contents/stomach and contents.	1	pesticide
23178892	Biotic interactions in temporal trends (1992-2010) of organochlorine contaminants in the aquatic food web of Lake Laberge, Yukon Territory.	"Declines in 6 organochlorine (OC) contaminant groups; chlordane (CHL), DDT, HCH, toxaphene (CHB), PCB and chlorinated benzenes (CBz) were measured in biota of a sub-Arctic lake (Lake Laberge, YT) following the closure of a commercial fishery in 1991. This study examined morphological (length, weight, age), biochemical (lipid content, δ(13)C, δ(15)N), population and OC data for 9 fishes and zooplankton between 1993 and 2003 (2010 for lake trout) to investigate causes for the OC declines. Growth dilution was a major factor influencing the decrease of OCs in lake trout, round whitefish and possibly zooplankton most notably in the early 2000s. A decline in lipids of most fish species also contributed to OC declines, although no such change was evident for zooplankton. It is suspected that increases in fish populations or climate variations over the 1990s, may have contributed towards a shift in plankton community composition. From 1991 to 1999, CPUE increased for 7 of the fish species and declined for 2 others. Concurrently, the zooplankton community shifted from an abundance of C. scutifer in 1993 to dominance by D. pribilofensis in 2001. Nitrogen and carbon stable isotope data suggested that food web interactions for most fish species have not changed over time. Although concentrations of OCs have declined in many fishes, the ""rate"" of OC transfer (using slopes of log OC vs. nitrogen isotope ratios) through the food web was greater in 2001 than in 1993. Overall, the declines in OC concentrations in the fish from Lake Laberge occurred concurrently with changes in their growth, lipid, and abundance, suggesting that ecosystem responses to the closure of the fishery were in part responsible for the lower contaminants in these fishes. As a result of this study, the Yukon government rescinded the health advisory for limiting the consumption of fish from Lake Laberge."	1	pesticide
23190116	Photocatalysis: effect of light-activated nanoscale formulations of TiO(2) on Xanthomonas perforans and control of bacterial spot of tomato.	Protection of crops from bacterial diseases presents a continuing challenge, mandating the development of novel agents and approaches. Photocatalysis is a process where chemically reactive oxygen species are catalytically generated by certain minerals in the presence of light. These reactive oxygen species have the capacity to destroy organic molecular structures critical to pathogen viability. In this study, the antibacterial potential of photocatalytic nanoscale titanium dioxide (TiO(2)), nanoscale TiO(2) doped (incorporation of other materials into the structure of TiO(2)) with silver (TiO(2)/Ag), and nanoscale TiO(2) doped with zinc (TiO(2)/Zn; AgriTitan) was evaluated against Xanthomonas perforans, the causal agent for bacterial spot disease of tomato. In vitro experiments on photocatalytic activity and dose dependency were conducted on glass cover slips coated with the nanoscale formulations by adding a known population of X. perforans strain Xp-F7 and illuminating the cover slips under a visible light source. TiO(2)/Ag and TiO(2)/Zn had high photocatalytic activity against X. perforans within 10 min of exposure to 3 × 10(4) lux. Greenhouse studies on naturally and artificially infected transplants treated with TiO(2)/Zn at ≈500 to 800 ppm significantly reduced bacterial spot severity compared with untreated and copper control. Protection was similar to the grower standard, copper + mancozeb. The use of TiO(2)/Zn at ≈500 to 800 ppm significantly reduced disease incidence in three of the four trials compared with untreated and copper control, and was comparable to or better than the grower standard. The treatments did not cause any adverse effects on tomato yield in any of the field trials.	1	pesticide
23194828	Long term compulsivity on the 5-choice serial reaction time task after acute Chlorpyrifos exposure.	Pesticide exposure has been associated with neuropsychological and psychiatric impairments and neurodegenerative disorders. Pesticide exposure commonly causes a deficit in inhibitory control behaviours. In the present study, we investigated whether acute exposure to organophosphate (OP) chlorpyrifos (CPF) is related to long-term lack of inhibitory control; we also examined the possible neurochemical basis of this association. Lister Hooded rats were exposed to an acute dose of CPF (250 mg/kg). Seven months later, we tested inhibitory control with the 5-choice serial reaction time task (5-CSRTT). We manipulated the baseline conditions of this task and also systemically pre-administered d-amphetamine, quinpirole, dizocilpine (MK-801) or ketanserin. We also analysed the post-mortem baseline levels of monoamines and amino acids in different brain regions. On the 5-CSRT task, CPF-exposed rats showed elevated perseverative responses that persisted across manipulation of baseline conditions of the task and under most of the pharmacological challenges tested. Only D-amphetamine induced a dose-dependent amelioration of the increased perseverative responses in the CPF group. The CPF group also exhibited increased levels of dopamine metabolism in the hippocampus and decreased levels of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glutamate in the striatum compared to the vehicle group. These findings suggest that CPF induced a long-term compulsivity that was apparent in the 5-CSRT task and associated with changes in monoaminergic and amino acid brain systems of inhibitory control function. Exposure to high doses of OP should be taken into account in studies of environmental causes for neurodegenerative, neuropsychological and neuropsychiatric disorders.	1	pesticide
23212887	Individual and joint toxicity of three chloroacetanilide herbicides to freshwater cladoceran Daphnia carinata.	Individual and joint toxicity of three chloroacetanilide herbicides to a freshwater cladoceran were studied. The 48 h-LC50 values of alachlor, acetochlor and butachlor to Daphnia carinata Dc42 were 11.1, 11.8 and 3.45 mg L(-1), respectively. The toxicity was significantly (p < 0.05) related to hydrophobicity. The additive indexes of binary mixtures of three herbicides were less than zero and it showed antagonism. The body length of D. carinata treated with high concentration of herbicides was shorter than that of control group significantly (p < 0.05). It suggests that joint actions must be considered when assessing the acute toxicity of chloroacetanilide herbicides to D. carinata.	1	pesticide
23218413	Influence of different abiotic and biotic factors on the metalaxyl and carbofuran dissipation.	Metalaxyl and carbofuran dissipation was studied in response to different factors (soil bacterial communities, light irradiation, presence of an inorganic culture medium and presence of soil) and combinations of these factors in short-term experiments (48 h). The soil microbial communities have no effect on metalaxyl or carbofuran dissipation in the time scale employed. Light irradiation and soil promote metalaxyl and carbofuran dissipation by photodegradation and adsorption, respectively. However, photodegradation has a stronger effect on metalaxyl and carbofuran dissipation than the adsorption of the pesticides in the soil. The addition of the culture medium have no direct effect on pesticide dissipation, degradation by microbial communities or adsorption but its presence greatly increased photodegradation.	1	pesticide
23238597	Water-gas exchange of organochlorine pesticides at Lake Chaohu, a large Chinese lake.	Organochlorine pesticides (OCPs), a potential threat to ecosystems and human health, are still widely residual in the environment. The residual levels of OCPs in the water and gas phase were monitored in Lake Chaohu, a large Chinese lake, from March 2010 to February 2011. Nineteen types of OCPs were detected in the water with a total concentration of 7.27 ± 3.32 ng/l. Aldrin, DDTs and HCHs were the major OCPs in the water, accounting for 38.3%, 28.9% and 23.6% of the total, respectively. The highest mean concentration (12.32 ng/l) in the water was found in September, while the lowest (1.74 ng/l) was found in November. Twenty types of gaseous OCPs were detected in the atmosphere with a total concentration of 542.0 ± 636.5 pg/m(3). Endosulfan, DDTs and chlordane were the major gaseous OCPs in the atmosphere, accounting for 48.9%, 22.5% and 14.4% of the total, respectively. The mean concentration of gaseous OCPs was significantly higher in summer than in winter. o,p'-DDE was the main metabolite of DDT in both the water and gas phase. Of the HCHs, 52.3% existed as β-HCH in the water, while α-HCH (37.9%) and γ-HCH (30.9%) were dominant isomers in the gas phase. The average fluxes were -21.11, -3.30, -152.41, -35.50 and -1314.15 ng/(m(2) day) for α-HCH, γ-HCH, HCB, DDT and DDE, respectively. The water-gas exchanges of the five types of OCPs indicate that water was the main potential source of gaseous OCPs in the atmosphere. A sensitivity analysis indicated that the water-gas flux of α-HCH, γ-HCH and DDT is more vulnerable than that of HCB and DDE to the variation of the parameters. The possible source of the HCHs in the water was from the historical usage of lindane; however, that in the air was mainly from the recent usage of lindane. The technical DDT and dicofol might be the source of DDTs in the water and air.	1	pesticide
23243891	[Effects of the environmental hormone cypermethrin on the reproduction of Brachionus calyciflorus].	The toxic effects of the antiandrogen cypermethrin on B. calyciflorus were investigated using the 2 d population growth rate (r) of B. calyciflorus. The effects of low-dose of cypermethrin (0.001-0.316 mg x L(-1)) on the 3 d population parameters, the 7 d resting egg production and the hatching rate of resting eggs of B. calyciflorus were also studied. The 2 d population parameters of B. calyciflorus were used to estimate the growth ability of larvae hatched from the resting eggs formed in cypermethrin. The 3 d population parameters were used to estimate the effect on the the reproduction of the offspring of B. calyciflorus, whose parent generation was preexposed in cypermethrin. The results indicated that the logarithmic concentration of cypermethrin had a linear negative correlation with the population growth rate. The half maximal effective concentration (EC50), the lowest observed effect concentration (LOEC) and no-observed effect concentration (NOEC) of cypermethrin were 14.22 mg x L(-1), 10 mg x L(-1) and 3.16 mg x L(-1), respectively. The resting egg production was decreased by 41.23% at 0.031 6 mg x L(-1) cypermethrin. The hatching rate of resting eggs was significantly decreased when formed in 0.031 6 mg x L(-1) cypermethrin. The population growth rate and mictic rate were significantly decreased for the individuals hatched from the resting eggs formed in cypermethrin. The 3 d population growth rate was significantly decreased by 15.96% compared to the control when their parent generation was pre-exposed in 0.316 mg x L(-1) cypermethrin. The results showed that the 2 d population growth rate of B. calyciflorus was less sensitive to cypermethrin. Low doses of cypermethrin reduced the resting egg production, the hatching rate of resting eggs and the population growth of hatched resting eggs, which would thus decrease the contribution of the offspring to the population growth.	1	pesticide
23248325	Directionally selected cytochrome P450 alleles are driving the spread of pyrethroid resistance in the major malaria vector Anopheles funestus.	Pyrethroid insecticides are critical for malaria control in Africa. However, resistance to this insecticide class in the malaria vector Anopheles funestus is spreading rapidly across Africa, threatening the success of ongoing and future malaria control programs. The underlying resistance mechanisms driving the spread of this resistance in wild populations remain largely unknown. Here, we show that increased expression of two tandemly duplicated P450 genes, CYP6P9a and CYP6P9b, is the main mechanism driving pyrethroid resistance in Malawi and Mozambique, two southern African countries where this insecticide class forms the mainstay of malaria control. Genome-wide transcription analysis using microarray and quantitative RT-PCR consistently revealed that CYP6P9a and CYP6P9b are the two genes most highly overexpressed (>50-fold; q < 0.01) in permethrin-resistant mosquitoes. Transgenic expression of CYP6P9a and CYP6P9b in Drosophila melanogaster demonstrated that elevated expression of either of these genes confers resistance to both type I (permethrin) and type II (deltamethrin) pyrethroids. Functional characterization of recombinant CYP6P9b confirmed that this protein metabolized both type I (permethrin and bifenthrin) and type II (deltamethrin and Lambda-cyhalothrin) pyrethroids but not DDT. Variability analysis identified that a single allele of each of these genes is predominantly associated with pyrethroid resistance in field populations from both countries, which is suggestive of a single origin of this resistance that has since spread across the region. Urgent resistance management strategies should be implemented in this region to limit a further spread of this resistance and minimize its impact on the success of ongoing malaria control programs.	1	pesticide
23261124	Earthworm ecotoxicological assessments of pesticides used to treat seeds under tropical conditions.	Ecotoxicological laboratory tests (lower-tier tests) are fundamental tools for assessing the toxicity of pesticides to soil organisms. In this study, using these tests under tropical conditions, we quantified the impact of the insecticides imidacloprid, fipronil, and thiametoxam, and the fungicides captan and carboxin+thiram, all of which are used in the chemical treatment of crop seeds, on the survival, reproduction, and behavior of Eisenia andrei (Oligochaeta). With the exception of imidacloprid, none of the pesticides tested caused mortality in E. andrei in artificial soils. The LC(50) of imidacloprid was estimated as 25.53 mg active ingredient kg(-1) of dry soil. Earthworm reproduction rates were reduced by imidacloprid (EC(50)=4.07 mgkg(-1)), fipronil (EC(20)=23.16 mgkg(-1)), carboxin+thiram (EC(50)=56.38 mgkg(-1)), captan (EC(50)=334.84 mgkg(-1)), and thiametoxam (EC(50)=791.99 mgkg(-1)). Avoidance behavior was observed in the presence of imidacloprid (AC(50)=0.11 mgkg(-1)), captan (AC(50)=33.54 mgkg(-1)), carboxin+thiram (AC(50)=60.32 mgkg(-1)), and thiametoxam (AC(50)=>20 mgkg(-1)). Earthworms showed a preference for soils with the insecticide fipronil. Imidacloprid was the most toxic of the substances tested for E. andrei. The avoidance test was the most sensitive test for most pesticides studied, but results varied between pesticides. These results offer new insights on the toxicity of pesticides used to treat seeds in tropical regions. However, they should be complemented with higher-tier tests in order to reduce the uncertainties in risk assessment.	1	pesticide
23274558	Carbon and nitrogen isotope analysis of atrazine and desethylatrazine at sub-microgram per liter concentrations in groundwater.	Environmental degradation of organic micropollutants is difficult to monitor due to their diffuse and ubiquitous input. Current approaches-concentration measurements over time, or daughter-to-parent compound ratios-may fall short, because they do not consider dilution, compound-specific sorption characteristics or alternative degradation pathways. Compound-specific isotope analysis (CSIA) offers an alternative approach based on evidence from isotope values. Until now, however, the relatively high limits for precise isotope analysis by gas chromatography-isotope ratio mass spectrometry (GC-IRMS) have impeded CSIA of sub-microgram-per-liter scale micropollutant concentrations in field samples. This study presents the first measurements of C and N isotope ratios of the herbicide atrazine and its metabolite desethylatrazine at concentrations of 100 to 1,000 ng/L in natural groundwater samples. Solid-phase extraction and preparative HPLC were tested and validated for preconcentration and cleanup of groundwater samples of up to 10 L without bias by isotope effects. Matrix interferences after solid-phase extraction could be greatly reduced by a preparative HPLC cleanup step prior to GC-IRMS analysis. Sensitivity was increased by a factor of 6 to 8 by changing the injection method from large-volume to cold-on-column injection on the GC-IRMS system. Carbon and nitrogen isotope values of field samples showed no obvious correlation with concentrations or desethylatrazine-to-atrazine ratios. Contrary to expectations, however, δ (13) C values of desethylatrazine were consistently less negative than those of atrazine from the same sites. Potentially, this line of evidence may contain information about further desethylatrazine degradation. In such a case, the common practice of using desethylatrazine-to-atrazine ratios would underestimate natural atrazine degradation.	1	pesticide
23337911	Toxicity assessment on trophoblast cells for some environment polluting chemicals and 17β-estradiol.	The identification of reproductive toxicants is a major scientific challenge for human health. We investigated the effects of a selected group of environmental polluting chemicals mostly provided with estrogenic activity on the human trophoblast cell lines BeWo and HTR-8/SVneo. Cells were exposed for 24h to various concentrations (from 0.1 pM to 1 mM) of atrazine (ATR), diethylstilbestrol (DES), para-nonylphenol (p-NP), resveratrol (RES) and 17 β-estradiol (E2) and assayed for cell viability and human beta-Chorionic Gonadotropin (β-hCG) secretion. Decrease of cell viability as respect to control, vehicle-treated, cultures was obtained for all chemicals in the concentration range of 1 μM-1 mM in both cell types. A parallel decrease of β-hCG secretion was observed in BeWo cells, at 1 μM-1 mM concentrations, with the only exception of ATR which caused an increase at concentrations up to 1mM. β-hCG release was also unexpectedly inhibited by ATR, DES, p-NP and RES at non-toxic (pM-nM) concentrations. These findings raise concern about the negative, potential effects of various environmental polluting chemicals on pregnancy success and fetal health.	1	pesticide
23364888	Assessment of inhibin B as a biomarker of testicular injury following administration of carbendazim, cetrorelix, or 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane in Wistar han rats.	Although histopathology is considered the gold standard for assessing testicular toxicity in the nonclinical setting, identification of noninvasive biomarkers for testicular injury are desirable to improve safety monitoring capabilities for clinical trials. Inhibin B has been investigated as a noninvasive biomarker for testicular toxicity. This study investigates the correlation of Inhibin B in Wistar Han rats with the onset and reversibility of testicular histopathology from classical testicular toxicants carbendazim, cetrorelix acetate (CTX), and 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane (DBCP). The dose regimen included Interim (day 8), Drug (day 29), and nondosing Recovery (day 58) Phases. Inhibin B was not effective at predicting the onset of carbendazim- or CTX-mediated testicular pathology in rats. Inhibin B was reduced by DBCP administration at the end of the Drug Phase only, acting as a leading indicator of the onset of testicular toxicity before the onset of germ cell depletion. However, since Inhibin B was only decreased at the end of the Dosing Phase and not at the Recovery Phase, when the onset of testicular pathology occurred, it is unclear if monitoring Inhibin B would provide sufficient advanced warning for the onset of testicular pathology. Furthermore, follicle stimulating hormone was decreased following CTX and DBCP administration in the Interim Phase and CTX in the Drug Phase. Inhibin B has limited predictive capacity as a leading testicular biomarker in rats.	1	pesticide
23374040	Time dependent sorption behavior of dinotefuran, imidacloprid and thiamethoxam.	Dinetofuran (DNT), imidacloprid (IMD) and thiamethoxam (THM) are among the neonicotinoid insecticides widely used for managing insect pests of agricultural and veterinary importance. Environmental occurrence of neonicotinoid in post-application scenario poses unknown issues to human health and ecology. A sorption kinetic study provides much needed information on physico-chemical interaction of neonicotinoid with soil material. In this research study, time-dependent sorption behavior of DNT, IMD and THM in vineyard soil was studied. Sorption kinetics studies were conducted over a period of 96 hours with sampling duration varying from 0, 2, 4, 8, 12, 24, 60 and 96 hours. All three neonicotinoids exhibited very low sorption potential for the soil investigated. Overall percent sorption for all three neonicotinoids was below 20.04 ± 2.03% with highest percent sorption being observed for IMD followed by DNT and THM. All three neonicotinoids are highly soluble with solubility increasing with IMD < THM < DNT. Although, DNT has the highest solubility among all three neonicotinoids investigated, it exhibited higher percent sorption compared to THM, indicating factors other than solubility influenced the sorption kinetics. Low sorption potential of neonicotinoids indicates greater leaching potential with regard to groundwater and surface water contamination.	1	pesticide
23378968	Toxicity of Pyrethroid and Organophosphorous Insecticides against Two Field Collected Strains of the German Cockroach Blattella germanica (Blattaria: Blattellidae).	BACKGROUND: The German cockroach, Blattella germanica is a major hygienic pest and mechanical vector for pathogenic agents in hospitals and residential areas. The development of insecticide resistance is a serious problem in controlling of this pest. Toxicity of four commonly used insecticides (permethrin, cypermethrin, malathion and chlorpyrifos) against two hospital- collected strains of the German cockroach was investigated. METHODS: Topical bioassay methods were carried out for detecting insecticide susceptibility of adult male cockroaches. For each insecticide, four to six concentrations resulting in >0% and <100% mortality were used. Three to six replicates of 10 cockroaches per concentration were conducted. The differences between LD(50) (μg/g) values were considered statistically significant only when the 95% confidence intervals did not overlap. RESULTS: Two hospital- collected strains of the German cockroach showed low to moderate levels of resistance to chlorpyrifos, permethrin, malathion and cypermethrin based on resistance ratios compared with susceptible strain. CONCLUSION: The low level chlorpyrifos resistance suggesting this insecticide may still provide adequate control of these strains. While the obsereved moderate levels of resistance to cypermethrin could imply developing resistance to this compound.	1	pesticide
23397716	[Research on population dynamics of Lonicera macranthoides aphid and natural enemy in Xiushan and evolution of pesticides].	OBJECTIVE: To study the population dynamics of aphid on Lonicera macranthoides and their natural enemy in Xiushan and control method of pesticide so as to provide scientific basis for its integrated pests management (IPM). METHOD: The field investigation and the field controlling trial were carried out for the research. RESULT: Semiaphis heraclei was the dominant species among L. macranthoides aphids. The population dynamics of apterous aphids went through five consecutive stages: initial, fluctuating, rising, peak and declining. The population dynamics of alate aphids was 4-7 days later than that apterous aphid's. Significant positive correlations were found between the population size of spiders and ladybugs which were natural enemies and number of aphids. The result of pesticides against aphids in field trial showed that 25% thiamethoxam WG, 70% imidacloprid WG and 20% acetamiprid WP had well controlling effect. CONCLUSION: Aphids on L. macranthoides could be well controlled while 25% thiamethoxam WG, 70% imidacloprid WG and 20% acetamiprid WP are sprayed during the period of aphid population raising, the early April to the mid May.	1	pesticide
23413701	Field-collected permethrin-resistant Aedes aegypti from central Thailand contain point mutations in the domain IIS6 of the sodium channel gene (KDR).	One of the mechanisms responsible for pyrethroid resistance in mosquitoes is mutations in domain IIS6 of voltage-gated sodium channel gene (kdr). Aedes aegypti larvae were collected from the central provinces of Thailand (Bangkok, Prachin Buri and Ratchaburi) and colonized until they became adults. Partial fragment of kdr of permethrin-resistant mosquitoes were amplified by RT-PCR and sequenced. Among the four nucleotide mutations detected, two mutations resulted in two amino acid substitutions, S(TCC) 989 P(CCC) and V(GTA)1016 G(GGA). Among 94 permethrin-resistant mosquitoes, the SS genotype (SS/VV) was found to predominate (n = 74), followed by SR (SP/VG) (n = 15) and RR (PP/ GG) genotypes (n = 5), with the resistant allele frequency ranging from 0.03 to 0.17. As pyrethroid insecticides are currently being advocated for use in Thailand, investigations of pyrethroid resistance in other regions of the country are needed to prevent potential cross-resistance among different types of insecticides.	1	pesticide
23424028	Bioavailability-based chronic toxicity measurements of permethrin to Chironomus dilutus.	Compared with acute toxicity, chronic exposures to low levels of contaminants are more environmentally relevant, but fewer data are available. In the present study, sediment toxicity of the pyrethoid permethrin to Chironomus dilutus was determined. The whole-life-cycle toxicity testing was conducted with the endpoints covering survival, growth, emergence, and reproduction. Permethrin caused 50% lethality in C. dilutus at 1.83 ± 1.13 µg/g organic carbon (OC) and 1.20 ± 0.55 µg/g OC after exposures of 20 d (before pupation) and 58 d (the end of the testing), respectively. The 5% and median effect concentrations (EC5 and EC50) represented the marginal and toxic levels of the sublethal effects, respectively, and effect data were all normalized to the controls before Probit analysis. The EC5s for growth, emergence, and reproduction were 0.034 ± 0.006 µg/g OC, 0.016 ± 0.008 µg/g OC, and 0.009 ± 0.008 µg/g OC, respectively; the respective EC50s were 1.09 ± 0.56 µg/g OC, 0.838 ± 0.077 µg/g OC, and 0.039 ± 0.105 µg/g OC. In addition, a 24-h Tenax extraction was employed to better assess permethrin bioavailability. Ultimately, response spectra with a series of endpoints were developed for permethrin using either OC-normalized bulk sediment concentrations or bioavailability-based Tenax extractable concentrations as the dose metric. The development of bioavailability-based chronic toxicity endpoints for sediment-associated permethrin would provide valuable benchmarks for evaluating ecological risk of this contaminant and contributing to improve sediment management policies.	1	pesticide
23427434	[Efficacy of the intradomiciliary treatments with cypermethrin, lambda-cyhalothrin and chlorpyrifos insecticides in an Aedes aegypti strain].	Field bioassays were conducted to determine the efficacy of the intradomiciliary treatments of thermal fogging and ULV with formulations of cypermethrin, lambda-cyhalothrin and chlorpyrifos by using an Aedes aegypti strain from Playa municipality, Havana City, Cuba. The results show in all cases that the thermal treatments are more efficient than those of ULV. As regards chlorpyrifos 48 EC insecticide it caused in both types of treatment 100% of mortality without adding DDVP (Dichlorvos 50%), whereas for cypermethrin 25 EC it was obtained 100% of mortality in thermal treatments with DDVP or without it. It was not so for the ULV treatments that should be applied with DDVP to be efficient. The efficacy of Icon 2.5 EC and of lambda-cyhalothrin 2.5 EC behaves similarly to that of cypermethrin; however, treatments with ULV are not efficient even when they are potentiated with DDVP.	1	pesticide
23427451	[Determination of insecticide-resistance and resistance mechanisms of Blattella germanica (Dictyoptera: Blattellidae)].	In this paper, the level of resistance to four insecticides of 3 Blatella germanica strains collected from various places in the City of Havana province was evaluated. These strains were resistant to two pyrethroids (cypermethrin and lambda-cyalothrine) and to organophosphorate malathion but susceptible to carbamate propoxur. The values of alpha and beta esterases, acetylcholinesterase and gluthatione-S-transferase were estimated in three strains involved in the study. The results of the study showed high esterase activity in all the strains, mainly beta esterases and two of the three strains presented with high gluthation-S-transferase enzyme. No changes in acetylcholinesterase were demonstrated in relation to the reference strain. The association of levels of resistance to insecticides, the possible resistance mechanisms in each strain and the results of the enzymatic activity were also analyzed.	1	pesticide
23427660	Oral treatment of rodents with fipronil for feed-through and systemic control of sand flies (Diptera: Psychodidae).	The sand fly Phlebotomus papatasi Scopoli is the vector of Leishmania major (Yakimoff & Schokhor), which is maintained in populations of burrowing rodents. The purpose of this study was to conduct a laboratory study to determine the efficacy of oral treatment of rodents with fipronil for control of sand flies that feed on rodent feces as larvae or on rodent blood as adults. We determined through larval bioassays that fipronil was eliminated in feces of orally-treated hamsters at a level that was significantly toxic to sand fly larvae for 21 d after the hamsters had been withdrawn from a fipronil-treated diet. Through bloodfeeding bioassays, we also found that fipronil was present in the peripheral blood of hamsters at a concentration that was significantly toxic to bloodfeeding adult female sand flies for 49 d after the hamsters had been withdrawn from their treated diet. The results of this study suggest that fipronil acts as well as or better than feed-through or systemic insecticides that previously have been measured against sand flies, and is particularly promising because this single compound acts against both larvae and bloodfeeding adults. An area-wide approach using rodent baits containing a fipronil could suppress vector populations that originate in the vicinity of rodent reservoirs, and could be used to eliminate the most epidemiologically important part of the vector population: female sand flies that take bloodmeals on rodent reservoirs.	1	pesticide
23434076	Adsorption and desorption behavior of selected pesticides as influenced by decomposition of maize mulch.	Assessing pesticide fate in conservation agricultural systems requires a detailed understanding of their interaction with decomposing surface crop residues (mulch). Adsorption and desorption behavior of glyphosate, s-metolachlor and epoxiconazole was investigated on maize mulch residues decomposed under laboratory and field conditions. Our conceptual approach included characterization of chemical composition and hydrophobicity of mulch residues in order to generate parameters to predict sorption behavior. Adsorption of s-metolachlor and epoxiconazole greatly increased with mulch decomposition, whereas glyphosate adsorption was less affected but its desorption was increased. Mulch characteristics including aromaticity, hydrophobicity and polarity indices were strongly correlated to Koc of the non-ionic pesticides. A predictive model based on compositional data (CoDa) analysis revealed that the sorption capacity of decomposing mulch can be predicted from descriptors such as aromatic and alkyl C corresponding respectively to lignin and NDF biochemical fractions. The decomposition degree of mulch residues should be taken into account while predicting the fate of pesticides.	1	pesticide
23436122	Photocatalytic degradation of contaminants of concern with composite NF-TiO2 films under visible and solar light.	This study reports the synthesis and characterization of composite nitrogen and fluorine co-doped titanium dioxide (NF-TiO(2)) for the removal of contaminants of concern in wastewater under visible and solar light. Monodisperse anatase TiO(2) nanoparticles of different sizes and Evonik P25 were assembled to immobilized NF-TiO(2) by direct incorporation into the sol-gel or by the layer-by-layer technique. The composite films were characterized with X-ray diffraction, high-resolution transmission electron microscopy, environmental scanning electron microscopy, and porosimetry analysis. The photocatalytic degradation of atrazine, carbamazepine, and caffeine was evaluated in a synthetic water solution and in an effluent from a hybrid biological concentrator reactor (BCR). Minor aggregation and improved distribution of monodisperse titania particles was obtained with NF-TiO(2)-monodisperse (10 and 50 nm) from the layer-by-layer technique than with NF-TiO(2) +monodisperse TiO(2) (300 nm) directly incorporated into the sol. The photocatalysts synthesized with the layer-by-layer method achieved significantly higher degradation rates in contrast with NF-TiO(2)-monodisperse titania (300 nm) and slightly faster values when compared with NF-TiO(2)-P25. Using NF-TiO(2) layer-by-layer with monodisperse TiO(2) (50 nm) under solar light irradiation, the respective degradation rates in synthetic water and BCR effluent were 14.6 and 9.5 × 10(-3) min(-1) for caffeine, 12.5 and 9.0 × 10(-3) min(-1) for carbamazepine, and 10.9 and 5.8 × 10(-3) min(-1) for atrazine. These results suggest that the layer-by-layer technique is a promising method for the synthesis of composite TiO(2)-based films compared to the direct addition of nanoparticles into the sol.	1	pesticide
23442715	Comparative study of different clean-up techniques for the determination of λ-cyhalothrin and cypermethrin in palm oil matrices by gas chromatography with electron capture detection.	Solid phase extraction (SPE) and dispersive solid-phase extraction (d-SPE) were compared and evaluated for the determination of λ-cyhalothrin and cypermethrin in palm oil matrices by gas chromatography with an electron capture detector (GC-ECD). Several SPE sorbents such as graphitised carbon black (GCB), primary secondary amine (PSA), C(18), silica, and florisil were tested in order to minimise fat residues. The results show that mixed sorbents using GCB and PSA obtained cleaner extracts than a single GCB and PSA sorbents. The average recoveries obtained for each pesticide ranged between 81% and 114% at five fortification levels with the relative standard deviation of less than 7% in all cases. The limits of detection for these pesticides were ranged between 0.025 and 0.05 μg/g. The proposed method was applied successfully for the residue determination of both λ-cyhalothrin and cypermethrin in crude palm oil samples obtained from local mills throughout Malaysia.	1	pesticide
23443637	Dissipation and residue of azoxystrobin in banana under field condition.	A method was developed for determining azoxystrobin in banana and cultivation soil using gas chromatography. The dissipation and residue of azoxystrobin in banana fields at GAP conditions were investigated. The average recoveries ranged from 80.3 to 96.0 % with relative standard deviations of 2.9 to 7.2 % at three different spiking levels for each matrix. The results indicated that the half-life of azoxystrobin in bananas and soil ranged from 7.5 to 13.5 days in Guangdong and from 8.7 to 12.7 days in Fujian. The dissipation rates of azoxystrobin in banana and soil were almost the same. Terminal residues in banana and banana flesh (0.01 mg/kg) were all below the maximum residue limit (2 mg/kg by Codex Alimentarius Commission and China). The results demonstrated that the safety of using azoxystrobin at the recommended agriculture dosage to protect bananas from diseases.	1	pesticide
23456723	Quantification of toxic effects of the herbicide metolachlor on marine microalgae Ditylum brightwellii (Bacillariophyceae), Prorocentrum minimum (Dinophyceae), and Tetraselmis suecica (Chlorophyceae).	Toxic effects of the herbicide metolachlor (MC) were evaluated for three marine microalgae, Tetraselmis suecica (chlorophyte), Ditylum brightwellii (diatom), and Prorocentrum minimum (dinoflagellate). MC showed a significant reduction in cell counts and chlorophyll a levels. Median effective concentration (EC50) was calculated based on chlorophyll a levels after a 72-h MC exposure. EC50 values for T. suecica, D. brightwellii, and P. minimum were 21.3, 0.423, and 0.07 mg/L, respectively. These values showed that the dinoflagellate was most sensitive when exposed to the herbicide, at a concentration comparable to freshwater algae, suggesting its potential as an appropriate model organism for ecotoxicity assessments in marine environments.	1	pesticide
23457591	Genomic insights into the glutathione S-transferase gene family of two rice planthoppers, Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) and Sogatella furcifera (Horváth) (Hemiptera: Delphacidae).	BACKGROUND: Glutathione S-transferase (GST) genes control crucial traits for the metabolism of various toxins encountered by insects in host plants and the wider environment, including insecticides. The planthoppers Nilaparvata lugens and Sogatella furcifera are serious specialist pests of rice throughout eastern Asia. Their capacity to rapidly adapt to resistant rice varieties and to develop resistance to various insecticides has led to severe outbreaks over the last decade. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Using the genome sequence of N. lugens, we identified for the first time the complete GST gene family of a delphacid insect whilst nine GST gene orthologs were identified from the closely related species S. furcifera. Nilaparvata lugens has 11 GST genes belonging to six cytosolic subclasses and a microsomal class, many fewer than seen in other insects with known genomes. Sigma is the largest GST subclass, and the intron-exon pattern deviates significantly from that of other species. Higher GST gene expression in the N. lugens adult migratory form reflects the higher risk of this life stage in encountering the toxins of non-host plants. After exposure to a sub-lethal dose of four insecticides, chlorpyrifos, imidacloprid, buprofezin or beta-cypermethrin, more GST genes were upregulated in S. furcifera than in N. lugens. RNA interference targeting two N. lugens GST genes, NlGSTe1 and NlGSTm2, significantly increased the sensitivity of fourth instar nymphs to chlorpyrifos but not to beta-cypermethrin. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: This study provides the first elucidation of the nature of the GST gene family in a delphacid species, offering new insights into the evolution of metabolic enzyme genes in insects. Further, the use of RNA interference to identify the GST genes induced by insecticides illustrates likely mechanisms for the tolerance of these insects.	1	pesticide
23469630	Human pediculosis: a critical health problem and what about nursing policy?	"Lice infestation on the human body (also known as pediculosis) is very common. Cases number in the hundreds of millions worldwide. Three distinct presentations of lice infection exist and each is caused by a unique parasite. Head lice (Pediculus humanus capitis) is by far and away the most common infestation and favors no particular socioeconomic group. A genetically close ""cousin,"" Pediculus humanus corporis, is responsible for body lice and is more commonly associated with poverty, overcrowding, and poor hygiene. Pubic lice (crabs) are caused by Pthirus pubis and is transmitted by intimate and/or sexual contact. No doubt, human lice infestation is an increasing problem worldwide, Apart from being an irritating and a shaming human ecto-parasite, they transmit serious infectious diseases; epidemic or classical typhus, epidemic relapsing fever as well as Trench fever. Eradication of lice infestation prevents transmission of infectious diseases. People who live and work in close proximity to louse-infested individuals may secondarily acquire lice even if they regularly wash their clothes and have good hygiene. Thus, all louse-infested persons and workers in close contact with such persons should periodically inspected and use long-acting safe insecticides. Human lice can be treated with agents such as DDT, malathion, and lindane, but reports of resistance to one or more of them have recently appeared. Pyrethroid permethrin when applied as a dust or spray to clothing or bedding is highly effective against lice and is the delousing agent of choice. Fabric treated with permethrin retains toxicity to lice even after 20 washings, thereby offering significant long-term passive protection against epidemic typhus. Itching may continue even after all lice are destroyed. This happens because of a lingering allergic reactionto their bites. Over-the-counter cortisone (corticosteroid) creams or calamine lotion may help."	1	pesticide
23473245	Ammonium chloride salting out extraction/cleanup for trace-level quantitative analysis in food and biological matrices by flow injection tandem mass spectrometry.	A sample extraction and purification procedure that uses ammonium-salt-induced acetonitrile/water phase separation was developed and demonstrated to be compatible with the recently reported method for pesticide residue analysis based on fast extraction and dilution flow injection mass spectrometry (FED-FI-MS). The ammonium salts evaluated were chloride, acetate, formate, carbonate, and sulfate. A mixture of NaCl and MgSO4, salts used in the well-known QuEChERS method, was also tested for comparison. With thermal decomposition/evaporation temperature of <350°C, ammonium salts resulted in negligible ion source residual under typical electrospray conditions, leading to consistent method performance and less instrument cleaning. Although all ammonium salts tested induced acetonitrile/water phase separation, NH4Cl yielded the best performance, thus it was the preferred salting out agent. The NH4Cl salting out method was successfully coupled with FI/MS/MS and tested for fourteen pesticide active ingredients: chlorantraniliprole, cyantraniliprole, chlorimuron ethyl, oxamyl, methomyl, sulfometuron methyl, chlorsulfuron, triflusulfuron methyl, azimsulfuron, flupyrsulfuron methyl, aminocyclopyrachlor, aminocyclopyrachlor methyl, diuron and hexazinone. A validation study was conducted with nine complex matrices: sorghum, rice, grapefruit, canola, milk, eggs, beef, urine and blood plasma. The method is applicable to all analytes, except aminocyclopyrachlor. The method was deemed appropriate for quantitative analysis in 114 out of 126 analyte/matrix cases tested (applicability rate=0.90). The NH4Cl salting out extraction/cleanup allowed expansion of FI/MS/MS for analysis in food of plant and animal origin, and body fluids with increased ruggedness and sensitivity, while maintaining high-throughput (run time=30s/sample). Limits of quantitation (LOQs) of 0.01mgkg(-1) (ppm), the 'well-accepted standard' in pesticide residue analysis, were achieved in >80% of cases tested; while limits of detection (LODs) were typically in the range of 0.001-0.01mgkg(-1) (ppm). A comparison to a well-established HPLC/MS/MS method was also conducted, yielding comparable results, thus confirming the suitability of NH4Cl salting out FI/MS/MS for pesticide residue analysis.	1	pesticide
23474402	Kolaviron prevents carbendazim-induced steroidogenic dysfunction and apoptosis in testes of rats.	The study evaluated the protective role of kolaviron (an isolated biflavonoid from the seed of Garcinia kola) and vitamin E in carbendazim-induced reproductive dysfunction in male rats. Adult male Wistar rats were orally exposed to carbendazim (200mg/kg) singly or in combination with kolaviron (100 and 200mg/kg). Exposure to carbendazim significantly decreased the activities of superoxide dismutase and catalase but markedly increased sialic acid concentration and lipid peroxidation in the testes of rats. Western blot analysis revealed that carbendazim treatment decreased the expression of steroid acute regulatory (StAR) protein and androgen binding protein (ABP) with concomitant decrease in activities of steroidogenic enzymes. Germ cell apoptosis in carbendazim-treated rats was confirmed by TUNEL assay. However, pretreatment with kolaviron and vitamin E restored the testicular antioxidant status and steroidogenesis and decreased apoptotic nuclei to near control level in carbendazim-treated rats. Kolaviron may prove useful in combating carbendazim-induced reproductive toxicity.	1	pesticide
23479887	[Resistance risk and resistance stability of Frankliniella occidentalis to imidacloprid, emamectin benzoate, and phoxim].	In order to effectively control the damage of Frankliniella occidentalis (Pergande), Phaseolus vuglaris was dipped with imidacloprid, phoxim, and emamectin benzoate, respectively to select the resistance populations of F. occidentalis from its susceptible population, and the resistance inheritance and resistance risk were analyzed with the resistance reality heredity. After 32, 32, and 24 generations' selection, the F. occidentalis populations obtained 13.8-fold, 29.4-fold and 39.0-fold resistance to imidacloprid, phoxim, and emamectin benzoate, respectively. The resistance reality heritability to imidacloprid, phoxim, and emamectin benzoate was 0.112, 0.166, and 0.259, respectively. The resistance development rate to emamectin benzoate was the fastest, followed by to phoxim, and to imidacloprid. The higher the resistance levels of the selected populations, the lower the differences between the larva and adult susceptibility to imidacloprid, phoxim, and emamectin benzoate. Stopping selection for 12 continuous generations, the resistance level of the selected resistance populations to imidacloprid, phoxim, and emamectin benzoate had definite decline, but it was difficult to regain the original susceptibility. F. occidentalis had a greater potential to gain high level resistance to imidacloprid, phoxim, and emamectin benzoate. Compared with the resistance of F. occidentalis to phoxim and emamectin benzoate, the resistance to imidacloprid increased slower and decreased faster, and thus, imidacloprid was more appropriate to control F. occidentalis in practice.	1	pesticide
23481303	Toxicity and sublethal effects of seven insecticides to eggs of the flower bug Orius insidiosus (Say) (Hemiptera: Anthocoridae).	The predatory bug Orius insidiosus is an important biological control agent of several insect pests, and is one of the most commonly used species in biological control programs worldwide. This study assessed the lethal and sublethal effects of insecticides on this species through life table, and classified the insecticides according to the definitions of toxicity given by the International Organization for Biological and Integrated Control of Noxious Animals and Plants (IOBC). A bioassay was carried out using a completely randomized design with eight treatments and 40 replicates. Eggs of O. insidiosus laid naturally in plant stems were immersed in aqueous solutions of the chemical products. Egg viability, duration of the embryonic period, survival of nymphs, and duration of the nymphal period were assessed daily. Insects that reached adulthood were paired and their reproduction assessed. The number of eggs produced and the survival of adults were assessed daily. The insecticides abamectin, cartap hydrochloride, spirotetramat+imidacloprid, and flubendiamid were classified as harmful. Pyriproxyfen and rynaxypyr were categorized as harmless and pymetrozine was classified as slightly harmful. Pyriproxyfen affected the population parameters rm, GT, DT, and λ, whereas other insecticides did not.	1	pesticide
23540124	Insecticide resistance in two Aedes aegypti (Diptera: Culicidae) strains from Costa Rica.	Dengue (family Flaviridae, genus Flavivirus, DENV) and dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) are presently important public health problems in Costa Rica. The primary strategy for disease control is based on reducing population densities of the main mosquito vector Aedes aegypti (L.) (Diptera: Culicidae). This is heavily dependent on use of chemical insecticides, thus the development of resistance is a frequent threat to control program effectiveness. The objective of this study was to determine the levels of insecticide resistance and the metabolic resistance mechanisms involved in two Ae. aegypti strains collected from two provinces (Puntarenas and Limon) in Costa Rica. Bioassays with larvae were performed according to World Health Organization guidelines and resistance in adults was measured through standard bottle assays. The activities of beta-esterases, cytochrome P450 monooxygenases, and glutathione S-transferases (GST), were assayed through synergists and biochemical tests, wherein the threshold criteria for each enzyme was established using the susceptible Rockefeller strain. The results showed higher resistance levels to the organophosphate (OP) temephos and the pyrethroid deltamethrin in larvae. The efficacy of commercial formulations of temephos in controlling Ae. aegypti populations was 100% mortality up to 11 and 12 d posttreatment with daily water replacements in test containers. Temephos and deltamethrin resistance in larvae were associated with high esterase activity, but not to cytochrome P450 monooxygenase or GST activities. Adult mosquitoes were resistant to deltamethrin, and susceptible to bendiocarb, chlorpyrifos, and cypermethrin. Because temephos and deltamethrin resistance are emerging at the studied sites, alternative insecticides should be considered. The insecticides chlorpyrifos and cypermethrin could be good candidates to use as alternatives for Ae. aegypti control.	1	pesticide
23545134	Chronic dietary exposure to chlorpyrifos causes behavioral impairments, low activity of brain membrane-bound acetylcholinesterase, and increased brain acetylcholinesterase-R mRNA.	Chlorpyrifos (CPF) is an organophosphate (OP) insecticide that is metabolically activated to the highly toxic chlorpyrifos oxon. Dietary exposure is the main route of intoxication for non-occupational exposures. However, only limited behavioral effects of chronic dietary exposure have been investigated. Therefore, male Wistar rats were fed a dose of 5mg/kg/day of CPF for thirty-one weeks. Animals were evaluated in spatial learning and impulsivity tasks after 21 weeks of CPF dietary exposure and one week after exposure ended, respectively. In addition, the degree of inhibition of brain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) was evaluated for both the soluble and particulate forms of the enzyme, as well as AChE gene expression. Also, brain acylpeptide hydrolase (APH) was investigated as an alternative target for OP-mediated effects. All variables were evaluated at various time points in response to CPF diet and after exposure ended. Results from behavioral procedures suggest cognitive and emotional disorders. Moreover, low levels of activity representing membrane-bound oligomeric forms (tetramers) were also observed. In addition, increased brain AChE-R mRNA levels were detected after four weeks of CPF dietary exposure. However, no changes in levels of brain APH were observed among groups. In conclusion, our data point to a relationship between cognitive impairments and changes in AChE forms, specifically to a high inhibition of the particulate form and a modification of alternative splicing of mRNA during CPF dietary exposure.	1	pesticide
23606131	Stability of the pyrethroid pesticide bifenthrin in milled wheat during thermal processing, yeast and lactic acid fermentation, and storage.	BACKGROUND: Pesticide residues have become an unavoidable part of food commodities. In the context of increased interest for food processing techniques as a tool for reducing pesticide residues, it is interesting to study the potential loss of pesticides during lactic acid and yeast fermentation. In the present paper the effect of fermentation by Lactobacillus plantarum and Saccharomyces cerevisiae and storage on 23 °C on bifenthrin in wheat was investigated. In addition, the effect of sterilisation (applied in order to avoid contamination with wild microorganism strains, i.e. to determine the individual effects of used strains) on bifenthrin degradation was tested as well. RESULTS: No significant loss of bifenthrin was observed during storage, or after the sterilisation. During the lactic acid fermentation, reduction within wheat fortified with 0.5 mg kg(-1) was 42%, while quite lower within samples fortified with 2.5 mg kg(-1) , maximum 18%. In contrast, bifenthrin concentration was not reduced during yeast fermentation, as the reduction in fortified samples was in the range of spontaneous chemical degradation during incubation period. CONCLUSION: Possible bifenthrin contamination in wheat, in amounts over the maximum residue limits, could not be reduced by sterilisation or by yeast fermentation, but lactic acid fermentation could be an effective tool for minimising residual contamination.	1	pesticide
23614047	Investigating the molecular mechanisms of organophosphate and pyrethroid resistance in the fall armyworm Spodoptera frugiperda.	The fall armyworm Spodoptera frugiperda is an economically important pest of small grain crops that occurs in all maize growing regions of the Americas. The intensive use of chemical pesticides for its control has led to the selection of resistant populations, however, to date, the molecular mechanisms underlying resistance have not been characterised. In this study the mechanisms involved in the resistance of two S. frugiperda strains collected in Brazil to chlorpyrifos (OP strain) or lambda-cyhalothrin (PYR strain) were investigated using molecular and genomic approaches. To examine the possible role of target-site insensitivity the genes encoding the organophosphate (acetylcholinesterase, AChE) and pyrethroid (voltage-gated sodium channel, VGSC) target-site proteins were PCR amplified. Sequencing of the S. frugiperda ace-1 gene identified several nucleotide changes in the OP strain when compared to a susceptible reference strain (SUS). These result in three amino acid substitutions, A201S, G227A and F290V, that have all been shown previously to confer organophosphate resistance in several other insect species. Sequencing of the gene encoding the VGSC in the PYR strain, identified mutations that result in three amino acid substitutions, T929I, L932F and L1014F, all of which have been shown previously to confer knockdown/super knockdown-type resistance in several arthropod species. To investigate the possible role of metabolic detoxification in the resistant phenotype of the OP and PYR stains all EST sequences available for S. frugiperda were used to design a gene-expression microarray. This was then used to compare gene expression in the resistant strains with the susceptible reference strain. Members of several gene families, previously implicated in metabolic resistance in other insects were found to be overexpressed in the resistant strains including glutathione S-transferases, cytochrome P450s and carboxylesterases. Taken together these results provide evidence that both target-site and metabolic mechanisms underlie the resistance of S. frugiperda to pyrethroids and organophosphates.	1	pesticide
23614723	Reduction of hazardous organic solvent in sample preparation for hydrophilic pesticide residues in agricultural products with conventional liquid chromatography.	An original extraction method using water as an extractant has been established for environmentally friendly sample preparation procedures for hydrophilic pesticides (acetamiprid, clothianidin, dinotefuran, flonicamid, imidacloprid, methomyl, pymetrozine, thiacloprid, and thiamethoxam) in agricultural samples with conventional HPLC. Water-based extraction and cleanup with two solid-phase extraction cartridges can recover target hydrophilic pesticides quantitatively. The matrix effects of tested samples on the proposed method developed herein were negligibly small. Under the optimized conditions, the recoveries of almost all tested pesticides were 70-120% with satisfactory precision (%CV < 20%). The analytical data are in good accordance with Japanese or European Union guidelines for pesticide residue analysis. The reduction rate of hazardous organic solvents used for the proposed method and by reducing the sample size for extraction was about 70% compared with the Japanese authorized reference method used in this work. The results demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed sample preparation procedures for hydrophilic pesticides.	1	pesticide
23620351	Involvement of alternative oxidase in the regulation of sensitivity of Sclerotinia sclerotiorum to the fungicides azoxystrobin and procymidone.	Sclerotinia sclerotiorum is a filamentous fungal pathogen that can infect many economically important crops and vegetables. Alternative oxidase is the terminal oxidase of the alternative respiratory pathway in fungal mitochondria. The function of alternative oxidase was investigated in the regulation of sensitivity of S. sclerotiorum to two commercial fungicides, azoxystrobin and procymidone which have different fungitoxic mechanisms. Two isolates of S. sclerotiorum were sensitive to both fungicides. Application of salicylhydroxamic acid, a specific inhibitor of alternative oxidase, significantly increased the values of effective concentration causing 50% mycelial growth inhibition (EC50) of azoxystrobin to both S. sclerotiorum isolates, whereas notably decreased the EC50 values of procymidone. In mycelial respiration assay azoxystrobin displayed immediate inhibitory effect on cytochrome pathway capacity, but had no immediate effect on alternative pathway capacity. In contrast, procymidone showed no immediate impact on capacities of both cytochrome and alternative pathways in the mycelia. However, alternative oxidase encoding gene (aox) transcript and protein levels, alternative respiration pathway capacity of the mycelia were obviously increased by pre-treatment for 24 h with both azoxystrobin and procymidone. These results indicate that alternative oxidase was involved in the regulation of sensitivity of S. sclerotiorum to the fungicides azoxystrobin and procymidone, and that both fungicides could affect aox gene expression and the alternative respiration pathway capacity development in mycelia of this fungal pathogen. 	1	pesticide
23625624	Effects of the insecticide fipronil on reproductive endocrinology in the fathead minnow.	Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and GABA receptors play an important role in neuroendocrine regulation in fish. Disruption of the GABAergic system by environmental contaminants could interfere with normal regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, leading to impaired fish reproduction. The present study used a 21-d fathead minnow (Pimephales promelas) reproduction assay to investigate the reproductive toxicity of fipronil (FIP), a broad-spectrum phenylpyrazole insecticide that acts as a noncompetitive blocker of GABA receptor-gated chloride channels. Continuous exposure up to 5 µg FIP/L had no significant effect on most of the endpoints measured, including fecundity, secondary sexual characteristics, plasma steroid and vitellogenin concentrations, ex vivo steroid production, and targeted gene expression in gonads or brain. The gonad mass, gonadosomatic index, and histological stage of the gonad were all significantly different in females exposed to 0.5 µg FIP/L compared with those exposed to 5.0 µg FIP/L; however, there were no other significant effects on these measurements in the controls or any of the other treatments in either males and females. Overall, the results do not support a hypothesized adverse outcome pathway linking FIP antagonism of the GABA receptor(s) to reproductive impairment in fish.	1	pesticide
23639722	Time-dependent movement and distribution of chlorothalonil and chlorpyrifos in tomatoes.	Determining the distribution of pesticides in fruits is essential to eliminate pesticide residues during food processing. In this study, the dynamic distribution of two pesticides, chlorothalonil (CHT) and chlorpyrifos (CHP), were determined in different tomato parts following immersion in pesticide solutions. The concentrations of CHT and CHP in tomato followed an order of cuticle>plasma>pulp. However, the plasma initially accumulated the highest pesticide concentration. And the ratio of CHT concentration to that of CHP in plasma was about 2.1:1, similar to the ratio in solution, which suggested carpopodium as the entry site for the pesticides tested. The ratio in the cuticle was 0.02:1-0.06:1. This was consistent with the ratio of Kow for the two pesticides, manifesting the direct pesticide transfer from solution to cuticle. Following pesticide injection into tomato, the degradation of CHT over 96h was described by a first-order decay equation, Ctomato(t)CHT=C0×e(-0.0239t). The CHP concentration in tomato remained nearly constant with little degradation detected. Deducting the amount of degradation and migration, volatilization appeared to contribute the most amount of migration of CHT and CHP in tomato.	1	pesticide
23642213	Insecticide-impregnated netting as a potential tool for long-lasting control of the leishmaniasis vector Lutzomyia longipalpis in animal shelters.	BACKGROUND: Leishmaniasis remains a serious neglected disease, with more than 350 million people potentially at risk worldwide. Control strategies often rely on spraying residual insecticides to target populations of the sand fly vectors that transmit Leishmania parasites when blood-feeding. These programmes are often difficult to sustain effectively, as sand fly resting sites must be resprayed on a regular basis. Here, we investigate whether application of insecticide-impregnated netting to a surface could act as an alternative to residual spraying for controlling the American visceral leishmaniasis vector Lutzomyia longipalpis. METHODS: Female L. longipalpis from our laboratory colony were exposed for 1 h to three treatments applied to plywood surfaces: 2% permethrin-impregnated netting (Olyset®), 20 mg a.i.m-2 micro-encapsulated lambda-cyhalothrin (Demand CS®) and a no-treatment control. We compared the speed at which these treatments acted, by measuring the percentage of sand flies killed both immediately after exposure to the treatment for 1 hour, as well as the number that had died 24 h after the 1 hour exposure. We repeated the experiment at 6 and 12 months following application to test the effectiveness of each treatment over time. RESULTS: When first applied, the lambda-cyhalothrin killed more sand flies in the first hour than the permethrin-impregnated netting. However, the effectiveness of the lambda-cyhalothrin diminished over time, so that there was no difference between the two treatments at 12 months. Both killed more sand flies than the control. When measured 24 h following exposure, both test treatments had killed close to 100% of sand flies when first applied, but while the lethal effect of the netting was maintained at close to 100% over 12 months, the effectiveness of the residual insecticide diminished to approximately 80% after 6 months. CONCLUSIONS: The results of these initial laboratory experiments indicate that covering surfaces with insecticide impregnated netting material may provide a longer-lasting solution for killing sand flies than residual spraying. Field trials are needed to identify the feasibility of treating surfaces with netting or similar impregnated materials as part of a control program. In targeting L. longipalpis, the greatest benefits may be seen in treating animal sheds with netting, where these sand flies aggregate in large numbers, and which can be difficult to treat repeatedly by conventional spraying.	1	pesticide
23692481	Systematic toxicological analysis revealing a rare case of captan ingestion.	This article presents a case of suicide by intoxication with various pharmaceuticals, particularly anticonvulsants, combined with the fungicide captan. A cause of death could not be ascertained at autopsy. However, systematic toxicological analysis (STA) including a screening via solid-phase microextraction (SPME) and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) for (semi) volatile organic compounds revealed results suggesting a possible cause of death. The effects of captan on the human organism, its metabolism, and distribution will be discussed. Macroscopically, the cause of death was unascertained. STA revealed clonazepam, citalopram, and its metabolites, lamotrigine, levetiracetam, lacosamide, clonazepam, captan, and its metabolite tetrahydrophthalimide (THPI). For the first time, it was detected in human viscera. A quantification of THPI was performed to obtain distribution in the organs. The significance of a complete STA must be emphasized. The presence of THPI would have been missed without previous detection of captan. Consequently, this fatality would not have been investigated satisfactorily.	1	pesticide
23709469	Abnormalities in amphibian populations inhabiting agroecosystems in Northeastern Buenos Aires Province, Argentina.	The occurrence of abnormalities in amphibians has been reported in many populations, and its increase could be related to environmental pollution and habitat degradation. We evaluated the type and prevalence of abnormalities in 5 amphibian populations from agroecosystems with different degrees of agricultural disturbance (cultivated and reference areas). We detected 9 types of abnormalities, of which the most frequent were those occurring in limbs. The observed prevalence of abnormality in assessed populations from cultivated and reference areas was as follows: Rhinella fernandezae (37.1 and 10.2%, respectively), Leptodactylus latrans adults (28.1 and 9.2%) and juveniles (32.9 and 15.3%), and Hypsiboas pulchellus (11.6 and 2.8%). Scinax granulatus populations did not show abnormalities. Pseudis minuta, which was only detected in the reference area, exhibited a prevalence of 13.3%. For R. fernandezae, L. latrans, and H. pulchellus, generalized linear mixed models showed that prevalence of abnormalities was significantly higher (p < 0.05) in cultivated than in reference areas. L. latrans juveniles were more vulnerable to abnormalities than adults (p < 0.05). The presence of abnormalities in some species inhabiting different agroecosystems suggests that environmental stress factors might be responsible for their occurrence. While we detected pesticides (endosulfan, cypermethrin, and chlorpyrifos) and lower dissolved oxygen levels in ponds of the cultivated area, no data are currently available on how other factors, such as injuries from predators and parasite infections, vary by land use. Further research will be necessary to evaluate possible causes of abnormalities detected in the present study mainly in the context of factor interactions.	1	pesticide
23715219	Community drinking water quality monitoring data: utility for public health research and practice.	CONTEXT: Environmental Public Health Tracking (EPHT) tracks the occurrence and magnitude of environmental hazards and associated adverse health effects over time. The EPHT program has formally expanded its scope to include finished drinking water quality. OBJECTIVES: Our objective was to describe the features, strengths, and limitations of using finished drinking water quality data from community water systems (CWSs) for EPHT applications, focusing on atrazine and nitrogen compounds in 8 Midwestern states. METHODS: Water quality data were acquired after meeting with state partners and reviewed and merged for analysis. RESULTS: Data and the coding of variables, particularly with respect to censored results (nondetects), were not standardized between states. Monitoring frequency varied between CWSs and between atrazine and nitrates, but this was in line with regulatory requirements. Cumulative distributions of all contaminants were not the same in all states (Peto-Prentice test P < .001). Atrazine results were highly censored in all states (76.0%-99.3%); higher concentrations were associated with increased measurement frequency and surface water as the CWS source water type. Nitrate results showed substantial state-to-state variability in censoring (20.5%-100%) and in associations between concentrations and the CWS source water type. CONCLUSIONS: Statistical analyses of these data are challenging due to high rates of censoring and uncertainty about the appropriateness of parametric assumptions for time-series data. Although monitoring frequency was consistent with regulations, the magnitude of time gaps coupled with uncertainty about CWS service areas may limit linkage with health outcome data.	1	pesticide
23727281	Density shift, morphological damage, lysosomal fragility and apoptosis of hemocytes of Indian molluscs exposed to pyrethroid pesticides.	Bellamya bengalensis (Gastropoda: Prosobranchia) and Lamellidens marginalis (Bivalvia: Eulamellibranchiata) are the molluscs of Indian freshwater ecosystem and important biological resources. These edible species bear economical, ecological, nutritional and medicinal importance. Natural habitat of these organisms is under the ecological threat of contamination by cypermethrin and fenvalerate, the common pyrethroid pesticides of India. Hemocytes are chief immunoeffector cells of molluscs which exhibit responsiveness against environmental toxins and perform diverse immunological functions including phagocytosis, encapsulation and cytotoxicity. Experimental exposure of cypermethrin and fenvalerate resulted in significant shift in density and morphological damage in hemocytes of B. bengalensis and L. marginalis respectively. Pyrethroid induced fragility and destabilization of hemocyte lysosomal membrane was recorded and proposed as an indication of toxin induced stress in molluscs. Apoptosis is an immunologically important cellular response which is modulated by environmental toxins. Pyrethroid exposure suppressed the physiological level of apoptosis and necrosis in hemocytes of B. bengalensis and L. marginalis indicating possible impairment of apoptosis mediated immunoprotection. Differential responses of B. bengalensis and L. marginalis hemocytes may be due to species specificity, toxin specificity, nonidentical immune strategies of Gastropoda and Bivalvia, specific habitat preference and related ecological niches. 	1	pesticide
23756960	Monitoring field susceptibility to imidacloprid in the cat flea: a world-first initiative twelve years on.	In 2001, an international surveillance initiative was established, utilising a validated larval development inhibition assay to track the susceptibility of cat flea isolates to imidacloprid. In 2009, an Australian node was incorporated into the programme, joining laboratories in the United States and Europe. Field isolates of Ctenocephalides felis eggs were submitted to participating laboratories and, where egg quantity and quality was sufficient, were placed in the imidacloprid discriminating dose bioassay for evaluation. Between 2002 and 2012, a total of 2,307 cat flea isolates were received across all sites; 1,685 submissions (73 %) were suitable for placement into the bioassay. In the Northern Hemisphere, isolate submission rate was influenced by season, with highest numbers submitted between June and October. In Australia, pets with flea infestations could be sourced year-round, and submission rate was largely influenced by programme factors and not climate. A total of 1,367 valid assays were performed between 2002 and 2012 (assay validity data was not recorded in 2001); adult flea emergence 5 % or greater at 3 ppm imidacloprid was observed in 38 of these assays (2.8 %). For these isolates that reached the threshold for further investigation, re-conduct of the assay using either a repeat challenge dose of 3 ppm of imidacloprid or a dose response probit analysis confirmed their susceptibility to imidacloprid. From 2009 to 2012, the Australian node performed valid assays on 97 field isolates from a total of 136 submissions, with no adult emergence observed at the 3-ppm imidacloprid discriminating dose. In addition to reviewing the data generated by this twelve-year initiative, this paper discusses lessons learned from the coordination and evolution of a complex project across geographically dispersed laboratories on three continents.	1	pesticide
23761300	Induction of endocannabinoid levels in juvenile rat brain following developmental chlorpyrifos exposure.	The endogenous cannabinoids 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) and anandamide (AEA) play vital roles during nervous system development. The degradation of 2-AG and AEA is mediated by monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL) and fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), respectively. These enzymes are inhibited following developmental chlorpyrifos (CPF) exposure. To investigate whether this inhibition is persistent or whether accumulation of endocannabinoids in the brain occurs, 10-day-old rat pups were orally exposed daily for 7 days to either corn oil or increasing dosages of CPF (1, 2.5, or 5mg/kg), and forebrains were collected at 4, 12, 24, and 48h following the last administration. All dosages inhibited cholinesterase (ChE), FAAH, and MAGL, and elevated AEA and 2-AG levels with the greatest effect occurring at 12h with ChE, FAAH, AEA, and 2-AG and at 4h with MAGL. With the high dosage, return to control levels occurred with 2-AG (48h) only. With the medium dosage, return to control levels occurred with MAGL, 2-AG, and AEA (48h) but not with ChE or FAAH. With the low dosage, return to control levels occurred with MAGL (12h), ChE and 2-AG (24h), and AEA (48h) but not with FAAH. With the lowest dosage, peak inhibition of FAAH (52%) is greater than that of ChE (24%) and that level of FAAH inhibition is sufficient to induce a persistent pattern of elevated AEA. It is possible that this pattern of elevation could alter the appropriate development of neuronal brain circuits. 	1	pesticide
23769463	Toxic effects of chlorpyrifos on lysozyme activities, the contents of complement C3 and IgM, and IgM and complement C3 expressions in common carp (Cyprinus carpio L.).	Chlorpyrifos is one of the organophosphate pesticides widely used in agricultural practices throughout world. It has resulted in a series of toxicological and environmental problems, such as impacts on many non-target aquatic species, including fish. In the present study, toxic effects of chlorpyrifos on lysozyme activities, contents of IgM and complement C3, and the expressions of IgM and complement C3 at mRNA level in common carp were evaluated by acute exposure of 15 (1/10 LC50) or 75μgL(-1) (1/2 LC50) of chlorpyrifos for 7d. The results of acute toxicity tests showed that the 96h-LC50 of chlorpyrifos for common carp was determined to be 149μgL(-1). We also found that chlorpyrifos promoted lysozyme activities at the earlier stages of exposure but inhibited it at the late stages in the serum, hepatopancreas, and spleen of common carp. Furthermore, it was observed that chlorpyrifos-exposure decreased IgM contents in fish serum and spleen while increased it in kidney. No obvious change was found in the contents of complement C3 in fish spleen, while a slight increase of complement C3 was observed in fish serum and kidney after 1d of chlorpyrifos-exposure. In addition, the results of quantitative real-time PCR showed that IgM and complement C3 expressions were up-regulated at the earlier stage of exposure but down-regulated at later stage. Our results indicate that chlorpyrifos causes immunotoxicity to common carp. 	1	pesticide
23790458	Environmental fate of fungicides and other current-use pesticides in a central California estuary.	The current study documents the fate of current-use pesticides in an agriculturally-dominated central California coastal estuary by focusing on the occurrence in water, sediment and tissue of resident aquatic organisms. Three fungicides (azoxystrobin, boscalid, and pyraclostrobin), one herbicide (propyzamide) and two organophosphate insecticides (chlorpyrifos and diazinon) were detected frequently. Dissolved pesticide concentrations in the estuary corresponded to the timing of application while bed sediment pesticide concentrations correlated with the distance from potential sources. Fungicides and insecticides were detected frequently in fish and invertebrates collected near the mouth of the estuary and the contaminant profiles differed from the sediment and water collected. This is the first study to document the occurrence of many current-use pesticides, including fungicides, in tissue. Limited information is available on the uptake, accumulation and effects of current-use pesticides on non-target organisms. Additional data are needed to understand the impacts of pesticides, especially in small agriculturally-dominated estuaries. 	1	pesticide
23793977	Responses of phytoplankton and Hyalella azteca to agrichemical mixtures in a constructed wetland mesocosm.	We assessed the capability of a constructed wetland to mitigate toxicity of a variety of possible mixtures, such as nutrients only (NO) (nitrogen [N], phosphorus [P]), pesticides only (PO) (atrazine, S-metolachlor, permethrin), and nutrients + pesticides on phytoplankton chlorophyll-a, on 48-h aqueous Hyalella azteca survival and 10-day sediment H. azteca survival and growth. Water and sediment were collected at 10-, 20-, and 40-m distances from inflow and analyzed for nutrients, pesticides, chlorophyll-a, and H. azteca laboratory bioassays. Phytoplankton chlorophyll-a increased 4- to 10 -fold at 7 days after NO treatment. However, responses of chlorophyll-a to PO and nutrients + pesticides were more complex with associated decreases at only 20 m for pesticides only and 10 and 40 m for nutrients + pesticides treatments. H. azteca aqueous survival decreased within the first 48 h of dosing at 10- and 20-m distances during PO and nutrients + pesticides treatments in association with permethrin concentrations. H. azteca sediment survival was unaffected, whereas 10-day growth decreased within 1 day of dosing at all sites during nutrients + pesticides treatment. Constructed wetlands were shown to be an effective agricultural best-management tool for trapping pollutants and mitigating ecological impacts of run-off in agricultural watersheds.	1	pesticide
23807240	Mood and memory deficits in a model of Gulf War illness are linked with reduced neurogenesis, partial neuron loss, and mild inflammation in the hippocampus.	Impairments in mood and cognitive function are the key brain abnormalities observed in Gulf war illness (GWI), a chronic multisymptom health problem afflicting ∼25% of veterans who served in the Persian Gulf War-1. Although the precise cause of GWI is still unknown, combined exposure to a nerve gas prophylaxis drug pyridostigmine bromide (PB) and pesticides DEET and permethrin during the war has been proposed as one of the foremost causes of GWI. We investigated the effect of 4 weeks of exposure to Gulf war illness-related (GWIR) chemicals in the absence or presence of mild stress on mood and cognitive function, dentate gyrus neurogenesis, and neurons, microglia, and astrocytes in the hippocampus. Combined exposure to low doses of GWIR chemicals PB, DEET, and permethrin induced depressive- and anxiety-like behavior and spatial learning and memory dysfunction. Application of mild stress in the period of exposure to chemicals exacerbated the extent of mood and cognitive dysfunction. Furthermore, these behavioral impairments were associated with reduced hippocampal volume and multiple cellular alterations such as chronic reductions in neural stem cell activity and neurogenesis, partial loss of principal neurons, and mild inflammation comprising sporadic occurrence of activated microglia and significant hypertrophy of astrocytes. The results show the first evidence of an association between mood and cognitive dysfunction and hippocampal pathology epitomized by decreased neurogenesis, partial loss of principal neurons, and mild inflammation in a model of GWI. Hence, treatment strategies that are efficacious for enhancing neurogenesis and suppressing inflammation may be helpful for alleviation of mood and cognitive dysfunction observed in GWI. 	1	pesticide
23830423	Development of a simple combining apparatus to perform a magnetic stirring-assisted dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction and its application for the analysis of carbamate and organophosphorus pesticides in tea drinks.	This study introduced a simple combining apparatus for performing a magnetic stirring-assisted dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction (MSA-DLLME) for the detection of trace carbamate and organophosphorus pesticides in tea drinks coupled with high performance liquid chromatography. The simple combining apparatus was made up of a sample vial and a cut plastic dropper. The bulb end of the cut plastic dropper was inserted into the neck of the sample vial and the open tip end of the plastic dropper was then cut to an appropriate length. The combining apparatus made was then used to perform the MSA-DLLME. In this experiment, 1-octanol was injected into the tea drink sample solution and the extraction process accelerated by magnetic agitation. The sample solution turned clear and separated into two layers after leaving it alone for several minutes. The cut plastic dropper was gently put down into the sample vial, and then the liquid level of the sample solution elevated up to the tip of the plastic dropper for the collection of low-density extractant. Finally, the collected extractant was drawn out by a microsyringe and injected into the high performance liquid chromatography-diode-array detector for analysis. A series of extraction parameters were investigated and optimized. Under the most favorable conditions, high enrichment factors were obtained for carbofuran, carbaryl and isocarbophos (between 130 and 185). The limits of detection (S/N=3) were in the range of 0.13-0.61 μg L(-1), and the relative standard deviation varied below 7.8% (n=5). Additionally, good recoveries were obtained between 79.4% and 114.4% in the three tea drinks. The simple combining apparatus utilized in this MSA-DLLME method was shown to be economical, fast, and convenient for the collection of low density extractant.	1	pesticide
23833440	Acute oral toxicity and histopathological study of combination of endosulfan and cypermethrin in wistar rats.	BACKGROUND: Endosulfan, a neurotoxic organochlorine insecticide and cypermethrin, a synthetic pyrethroid insecticide used to control pests in domestic, industrial, and agricultural situations. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The present study was carried out to investigate the acute oral toxicity, behavioral and histopathological changes of combination of endosulfan and cypermethrin in albino rats. According to Miller and Tainter analysis method, at 48 h, LD50 value of combination of endosulfan and cypermethrin (ratio 1:1) in rats was found to be 691.83 mg/kg bw by oral gavage. RESULTS: When combination of both these pesticides was administered orally at concentration of 103.72 mg/kg bw, 172.95 mg/kg bw and 207.50 mg/kg bw, respectively, as a single dose, no significant changes in behavior of rats was observed, neither in dosed nor in control group of rats. Combination of endosulfan- and cypermethrin-treated rats showed mild histopathological changes in liver and kidney in group IV (207.50 mg/kg BW) as compared to the control. However, no significant changes were observed in brain and small intestine at either dose of combination of endosulfan and cypermethrin with respect to control. CONCLUSION: Thus, the present study, first of its kind in India, demonstrated the oral toxicity, behavioral, and histo-architectual alterations after induction of combination of endosulfan and cypermethrin at acute doses in Wistar rats.	1	pesticide
23867006	Reaction of 2,6-dichloroquinone-4-chloroimide (Gibbs reagent) with permethrin - an optical sensor for rapid detection of permethrin in treated wood.	BACKGROUND: A novel optical sensor for the rapid and direct determination of permethrin preservatives in treated wood was designed. The optical sensor was fabricated from the immobilisation of 2,6-dichloro-p-benzoquinone-4-chloroimide (Gibbs reagent) in nafion/sol-gel hybrid film and the mode of detection was based on absorption spectrophotometry. Physical entrapment was employed as a method of immobilisation. RESULTS: The sensor gave a linear response range of permethrin between 2.56-383.00 μM with detection limit of 2.5 μM and demonstrated good repeatability with relative standard deviation (RSD) for 10 μM at 5.3%, 100 μM at 2.7%, and 200 μM at 1.8%. The response time of the sensor was 40 s with an optimum response at pH 11. CONCLUSIONS: The sensor was useful for rapid screening of wood or treated wood products before detailed analysis using tedious procedure is performed. The validation study of the optical sensor against standard method HPLC successfully showed that the permethrin sensor tended to overestimate the permethrin concentration determined.	1	pesticide
23871562	Optimized liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry approach for the determination of diquat and paraquat herbicides.	Liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) determination of quaternary ammonium herbicides diquat (DQ) and paraquat (PQ) can be very challenging due to their complicated chromatographic and mass spectrometric behaviors. Various multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) transitions from radical cations M(+) and singly charged cations [M-H](+), have been reported for LC-MS/MS quantitation under different chromatographic and mass spectrometric conditions. However, interference peaks were observed for certain previously reported MRM transitions in our study. Using a Dionex Acclaim(®) reversed-phase and HILIC mixed-mode LC column, we evaluated the most sensitive MRM transitions from three types of quasi-molecular ions of DQ and PQ, elucidated the cross-interference phenomena, and demonstrated that the rarely mentioned MRM transitions from dications M(2+) offered the best selectivity for LC-MS/MS analysis. Experimental parameters, such as IonSpray (IS) voltage, source temperature, declustering potential (DP), column oven temperature, collision energy (CE), acid and salt concentrations in the mobile phases were also optimized and an uncommon electrospray ionization (ESI) capillary voltage of 1000V achieved the highest sensitivity. Employing the proposed dication transitions 92/84.5 for DQ and 93/171 for PQ, the direct aqueous injection LC-MS/MS method developed was able to provide a method detection limit (MDL) of 0.1μg/L for the determination of these two herbicides in drinking water. 	1	pesticide
23903383	Structural changes in a macrozoobenthos assemblage after imidacloprid pulses in aquatic field-based microcosms.	A field-based microcosm experiment was performed to investigate the effects of repeated pulses of the neonicotinoid insecticide imidacloprid on a lentic benthos assemblage. This specific microcosm method was chosen because it allows for both testing of a wide range of organisms under natural conditions and as well as gaining insight into intraspecific and interspecific interactions. The macrozoobenthos that colonised the microcosms was exposed to three pulses each 1 week apart at nominal concentrations ranging from 0.6 to 40 μg/L. Imidacloprid underwent fast aqueous photolysis due to optimal sunlight conditions during the test phase (half-life = 28 ± 8 h [monitored for 21 days]). Nonetheless, decreased abundance and emergence of Ephemeroptera and decreased survival of chironomid species of the subfamilies Tanypodinae and Orthocladiinae were observed at time-weighted average concentrations of 2.3 μg/L. In contrast, the gastropod Radix sp. became dominant at high imidacloprid concentrations, probably due to decreased competition for food with sensitive species. The results of this study show that repeated short-term contamination of imidacloprid at low concentration levels may affect aquatic ecosystems even under optimal conditions for photodegradation. The microcosm approach, with its simple and field-relevant design, proved to be a useful tool for assessing the effects of imidacloprid contamination. 	1	pesticide
23911355	Contrasting patterns of tolerance between chemical and biological insecticides in mosquitoes exposed to UV-A.	Mosquitoes are vectors of major human diseases, such as malaria, dengue or yellow fever. Because no efficient treatments or vaccines are available for most of these diseases, control measures rely mainly on reducing mosquito populations by the use of insecticides. Numerous biotic and abiotic factors are known to modulate the efficacy of insecticides used in mosquito control. Mosquito breeding sites vary from opened to high vegetation covered areas leading to a large ultraviolet gradient exposure. This ecological feature may affect the general physiology of the insect, including the resistance status against insecticides. In the context of their contrasted breeding sites, we assessed the impact of low-energetic ultraviolet exposure on mosquito sensitivity to biological and chemical insecticides. We show that several mosquito detoxification enzyme activities (cytochrome P450, glutathione S-transferases, esterases) were increased upon low-energy UV-A exposure. Additionally, five specific genes encoding detoxification enzymes (CYP6BB2, CYP6Z7, CYP6Z8, GSTD4, and GSTE2) previously shown to be involved in resistance to chemical insecticides were found over-transcribed in UV-A exposed mosquitoes, revealed by RT-qPCR experiments. More importantly, toxicological bioassays revealed that UV-exposed mosquitoes were more tolerant to four main chemical insecticide classes (DDT, imidacloprid, permethrin, temephos), whereas the bioinsecticide Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. israelensis (Bti) appeared more toxic. The present article provides the first experimental evidence of the capacity of low-energy UV-A to increase mosquito tolerance to major chemical insecticides. This is also the first time that a metabolic resistance to chemical insecticides is linked to a higher susceptibility to a bioinsecticide. These results support the use of Bti as an efficient alternative to chemical insecticides when a metabolic resistance to chemicals has been developed by mosquitoes.	1	pesticide
23948559	In vitro and in vivo evaluation of cypermethrin, amitraz, and piperonyl butoxide mixtures for the control of resistant Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus (Acari: Ixodidae) in the Mexican tropics.	A study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of cypermethrin, amitraz, and piperonyl butoxide (PBO) mixtures, through in vitro laboratory bioassays and in vivo on-animal efficacy trials, for the control of resistant Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus on cattle in the Mexican tropics. Also, to examine mechanisms of resistance to cypermethrin in this tick population, the frequency of a mutated sodium channel gene (F1550I) was determined using a PCR assay. Results of laboratory bioassays using modified larval packet tests revealed that cypermethrin toxicity was synergized by PBO (from 46.6-57.0% to 83.7-85.0% larval mortality; P<0.05). The cypermethrin and amitraz mixture showed an additive effect (from 46.6-57.0% to 56.0-74.3% larval mortality). Strong synergism was observed with the mixture of cypermethrin+amitraz+PBO and this mixture was the most effective killing resistant tick larvae in vitro (96.7-100% of larval mortality). Tick larvae surviving exposure to cypermethrin or mixtures either with amitraz and PBO in vitro showed 2.9-49.6 higher probability to present the mutated allele than those killed by acaricide treatment (P<0.05). In the in vivo trial, the mixtures containing cypermethrin+PBO (80.6-97.3%), and cypermethrin+amitraz (87.0-89.7%) were more efficacious than cypermethrin alone (76.3-80.5%). The highest level of efficacy was obtained with the mixture of cypermethrin+amitraz+PBO, which yielded >95% control that persisted for 28 days post-treatment against R. microplus infesting cattle when tested under field conditions in the Mexican tropics. Although this mixture is a potentially useful tool to combat pyrethroid resistance, a product based on an acaricide mixture like the one tested in this study has to be used rationally. 	1	pesticide
23954766	In vitro-in vivo correlations for endocrine activity of a mixture of currently used pesticides.	Two pesticide mixtures were investigated for potential endocrine activity. Mix 3 consisted of bitertanol, propiconazole, and cypermethrin, and Mix 5 included malathion and terbuthylazine in addition to the three pesticides in Mix 3. All five single pesticides and the two mixtures were investigated for their ability to affect steroidogenesis in vitro in H295R cells. The pesticides alone and both mixtures affected steroidogenesis with both mixtures causing increase in progesterone and decrease in testosterone. For Mix 5 an increase in estradiol was seen as well, indicating increased aromatase activity. The two mixtures were also investigated in pregnant rats dosed from gestational day 7 to 21, followed by examination of dams and fetuses. Decreased estradiol and reduced placental testosterone were seen in dams exposed to Mix 5. Also a significant increase in aromatase mRNA-levels in female adrenal glands was found for Mix5. However, either of the two mixtures showed any effects on fetal hormone levels in plasma or testis, or on anogenital distance. Overall, potential aromatase induction was found for Mix 5 both in vitro and in vivo, but not for Mix 3, an effect likely owed to terbuthylazine in Mix 5. However, the hormonal responses in vitro were only partly reflected in vivo, probably due to some toxicokinetic issues, as the pesticide levels in the amniotic fluid also were found to be negatively affected by the number of compounds present in the mixtures. Nonetheless, the H295R assay gives hints on conceivable interference with steroidogenesis, thus generating hypotheses on in vivo effects. 	1	pesticide
23955250	"Temporal trends in ""legacy"" organochlorine contaminants in blubber of ringed seals (Phoca hispida) from Ulukhaktok, NT, Canada between 1972 and 2010."	In blubber of ringed seals (Phoca hispida) from Ulukhaktok, NT, residues of DDT, other organochlorine pesticides, and PCBs declined between 1972 and 2010. The rate of decline varied: concentrations of the DDT-group began to fall after 1981, whereas those of PCBs fell rapidly between 1972 and 1981, and then slowed. Concentrations of cis- and trans-chlordane and of HCB in both sexes, and of cis-nonachlor in males, declined slowly between 1978 and 2010; those of other organochlorine pesticides remained steady. Exponential half-lives of p,p'-DDT and p,p'-DDE in female seals are about 9 and 36 y (corresponding to initial declines of 7.8% and 1.9% per year, respectively) and those of PCB congeners from about 20 to 60 y (declines of 3.2% to <1.5% per year); the more refractory residues may be detectable for centuries to come. Exploratory PCA of PCB congener distribution identified temporal changes apparently not related to molecular structure.	1	pesticide
23955887	Does cypermethrin affect enzyme activity, respiration rate and walking behavior of the maize weevil (Sitophilus zeamais)?	Insecticides cause a range of sub-lethal effects on targeted insects, which are frequently detrimental to them. However, targeted insects are able to cope with insecticides within sub-lethal ranges, which vary with their susceptibility. Here we assessed the response of three strains of the maize weevil Sitophilus zeamais Motschulsky (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) to sub-lethal exposure to the pyrethoid insecticide cypermethrin. We expected enzyme induction associated with cypermethrin resistance since it would aid the resistant insects in surviving such exposure. Lower respiration rate and lower activity were also expected in insecticide-resistant insects since these traits are also likely to favor survivorship under insecticide exposure. Curiously though, cypermethrin did not affect activity of digestive and energy metabolism enzymes, and even reduced the activity of some enzymes (particularly for cellulase and cysteine-proteinase activity in this case). There was strain variation in response, which may be (partially) related to insecticide resistance in some strains. Sub-lethal exposure to cypermethrin depressed proteolytic and mainly cellulolytic activity in the exposed insects, which is likely to impair their fitness. However, such exposure did not affect respiration rate and walking behavior of the insects (except for the susceptible strain where walking activity was reduced). Walking activity varies with strain and may minimize insecticide exposure, which should be a concern, particularly if associated with (physiological) insecticide resistance. 	1	pesticide
23993570	Molecular imprinted photonic crystal hydrogels for the rapid and label-free detection of imidacloprid.	A novel sensor for the rapid and label-free detection of imidacloprid was developed based on the combination of a colloidal crystal templating method and a molecular imprinting technique. The molecular imprinted photonic hydrogel film was prepared with methacrylic acid as monomers, ethylene glycol dimethylacrylate as cross-linkers and imidacloprid as imprinting template molecules. When the colloidal crystal template and the molecularly imprinted template was removed, the resulted MIPH film possessed a highly ordered three-dimensional macroporous structure with nanocavities. The response of the MIPH film to imidacloprid in aqueous solution can be detected through a readable Bragg diffraction red shift. When the concentration of imidacloprid increased from 10(-13) to 10(-7) g/mL, the Bragg diffraction peak shifted from 551 to 589 nm, while there were no obvious peak shifts for thiamethoxam and acetamiprid. This sensor which comprises of no label techniques and expensive instruments has potential application for the detection of trace imidacloprid.	1	pesticide
23994515	Exposure of maternal mice to cis-bifenthrin enantioselectively disrupts the transcription of genes related to testosterone synthesis in male offspring.	The commercial bifenthrin (BF) contains two cis isomers. In the present study, a dose of 15mg/kg of 1R-cis-BF or 1S-cis-BF was orally administered for 3 weeks to female mice before or during pregnancy. Then, the expression of steroidogenesis related genes which were considered as effective biomarkers of endocrine disruption were analyzed in the male offspring. Maternal exposure to 1S-cis-BF during pregnancy significantly reduced the mRNA levels of peripheral benzodiazepine receptor (PBR) and steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR) in the testes of 3- or 6-week old male offspring. In addition, a significant decrease of cytochrome P450 17α-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (P450-17α) was also observed in the testes of 6-week old male offspring when dams were treated with 1S-cis-BF during pregnancy but not before pregnancy. Moreover, the scavenger receptor class B type 1 (SRB1) and cytochrome P450 cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme (P450scc) decreased significantly in the testes of 6-week old male offspring when dams were treated with 1S-cis-BF during and before pregnancy. Thus, oral administration of the maternal mice to cis-BF for 3 weeks, particularly during pregnancy, resulted in endocrine disruption in the male offspring, with the 1S-cis-BF causing more significant alterations than the 1R-cis-BF form. 	1	pesticide
23995850	GC-MS determination of targeted pesticides in environmental samples from the Kafue Flats of Zambia.	Results of a GC-MS analysis for targeted pesticides i.e. dieldrin, endosulfan, pp-DDT, endrin, HCB, heptachlor, mirex and aldrin in the Kafue Flats of Zambia are presented. Analysis was done in soils, sediments, water and vegetation samples from the Lochinvar and Blue Lagoon National Parks along the Kafue River. A validated analytical method that was used gave recoveries in a spiked soil sample ranging between 60 % and 100 % with limits of detection (LODs) ranging from 0.94 to 8.0 ng/g. The targeted pesticides were not detected in all the samples i.e. were below LODs. Screening using the Automated Mass Spectral Deconvolution and Identification System (AMDIS) simplified the analysis due to its power of deconvolution and identification of analytes of interest.	1	pesticide
23996682	Comparative assessment of pesticide residues in grain, soil, and water from IPM and non-IPM trials of basmati rice.	The integrated pest management (IPM) modules of pesticide schedule on Basmati rice were validated at field experiments conducted in Northern India for consecutive 3 years (2005-2008). The pesticide residues were found below the detectable limit (<0.01-0.001 mg/kg) in soil and irrigation water samples of Kaithal region. In Dehra Dun region of Uttrakhand, the residues of carbendazim in rice grains and soil were detected below <0.01 mg/kg level. In second year experiments (2006-2007), only four non-IPM soil samples indicated the presence of chlorpyrifos and endosulfan in the range of ND <0.001 to 0.07 mg/kg, out of 45 samples analyzed. Carbendazim applied as seed treatment at Dehradun and Kaithal field trials was found below detectable limit in both IPM and non-IPM rice grains (<0.01 mg/kg) and irrigation water (0.01 μl/ml). Chlorpyrifos was detected in five water samples from Kaithal and one from Pant Nagar in the range of 0.003-0.006 μl/L, α- and β-isomer of endosulfan in the range of 0.005-0.03, and 0.005-0.02 μl/ml, respectively, in one sample from Pant Nagar and two from Kaithal, out of a total of 22 samples. In the region of Uttrakhand and Uttar Pradesh during 2007-2008, four non-IPM samples of soil indicated trace levels of endosulfan, out of 16 samples analyzed. The residues were detected below detection limit for carbendazim (<0.01 mg/kg) in soil samples of Dehradun IPM fields and for endosulfan and carbendazim (0.001-0.01 μl/L) in water samples each from IPM and non-IPM fields of Uttar Pradesh. The results of 3-year trials of IPM module indicated basmati rice as safe and economical with pesticide residue-free rice grains. 	1	pesticide
24014652	Lack of P-glycoprotein-mediated efflux and the potential involvement of an influx transport process contributing to the intestinal uptake of deltamethrin, cis-permethrin, and trans-permethrin.	The effectiveness and widespread use of pyrethroid insecticides has lead to concerns regarding their safety. Human ingestion of these potentially neurotoxic compounds is typically through hand-to-mouth contact or consumption of contaminated foods. A substantial proportion of ingested pyrethroids are eliminated in feces, suggesting that absorption is limited, possibly by the action of the efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp). We utilized caco-2 cells as a model system for intestinal enterocytes and qualitatively and quantitatively assessed the transport of deltamethrin (DLM), cis-permethrin (CPM), and trans-permethrin (TPM). Caco-2 cell uptake of the P-gp substrate R6G was increased by the P-gp inhibitors cyclosporine A (CSA) and ritonavir but not by DLM, CPM, and TPM. Unexpectedly, CSA and ritonavir significantly reduced the uptake of DLM, CPM, and TPM. Permeability coefficients (P app) and directional flux of DLM, CPM, or TPM were greater in the absorptive than the secretory (efflux) direction when measured across caco-2 monolayers grown on Transwell inserts. When CSA was applied to the monolayers' apical (AP) side, the AP to basolateral (BL) P app was significantly reduced, with no change in the BL to AP P app. Kinetic analysis demonstrated saturable transport kinetics for all 3 pyrethroids. These findings indicate that the cellular uptake of DLM, CPM, and TPM is not limited by P-gp efflux but undergo absorptive influx transport as a contributing mechanism for cellular uptake. However, the overall P app values for DLM, CPM, and TPM are consistent with the low permeability/low absorption compound mannitol, suggesting limited gastrointestinal absorption potential.	1	pesticide
24016625	Disposition of fipronil in rats.	In the scientific literature, little attention has been paid to the disposition of fipronil, a phenyl pyrazole insecticide. In this study, the tissue distribution, the metabolic fate, and the elimination of fipronil was investigated in rats using radiolabeled fipronil. When a single oral dose of (14)C-fipronil (10 mg kg(-1) b.w.) was given to rats, the proportion of dose eliminated in urine and feces 72 h after dosing was ca 4% for each route. At the end of the experiment the highest levels of radioactivity were found in adipose tissue and adrenals. The main part of the radioactivity present in investigated tissues (adipose tissue, adrenals, liver, kidney, testes) was due to fipronil-sulfone. Five additional metabolites, isolated from urine were characterized by LC-MS/MS. Most of them are formed by the loss of the trifluoromethylsulphinyl group and subsequent hydroxylation and/or conjugation to glucuronic acid or sulfate. In conclusion, the retention of the metabolite fipronil sulfone in tissues following fipronil administration raises the question of the potential toxicity of this insecticide.	1	pesticide
24020271	Beauveria bassiana (Ascomycota: Hypocreales) wound dressing for the control of Euzophera pinguis (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae).	Injury to olive tree trunks and branches because of biotic and abiotic factors, such as pruning and mechanical harvesting, attracts the olive pyralid moth Euzophera pinguis Haworth (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae). This moth has become increasingly important in the Mediterranean region during recent years. The use of an entomopathogenic fungus for wound dressing for pest control is reported for the first time in this study. Beauveria bassiana (Ascomycota: Hypocreales) strain EABb 08/04-Ep was originally obtained from a diseased E. pinguis larva and has shown effective E. pinguis control in an olive crop in Jaén, Andalusia, Spain, under field conditions during the spring and fall of 2008 and 2009 and the spring of 2011. Experimental artificial 30 by 30-mm square wound cages were large enough to allow the E. pinguis females to oviposit. Approximately 80 and 40-60% of the control wounds contained live larvae in the experiments that occurred during the spring and fall, respectively. The B. hassiana wound dressing gave similar results as the chlorpyrifos wound dressing throughout the experiment, with efficacies reaching 80-85% in the spring and 90-95% in the autumn. The B. bassiana fungus was recovered from 60-90% of the wounds at the completion of the experiments and after 60 d of treatment. These data indicate that strain EABb 08/04-Ep applied to the pruning wounds can be an effective tool for the microbial control of E. pinguis in olive crops. Moreover, B. bassiana may be used within integrated pest management strategies to minimize chemicals, depending on the population density of the pyralid moth.	1	pesticide
24026208	Influence of microbial and synthetic surfactant on the biodegradation of atrazine.	The present study reports the effect of surfactants (rhamnolipids and triton X-100) on biodegradation of atrazine herbicide by strain A6, belonging to the genus Acinetobacter. The strain A6 was able to degrade nearly 80 % of the 250-ppm atrazine after 6 days of growth. The bacterium degraded atrazine by de-alkylation process. Bacterial cell surface hydrophobicity as well as atrazine solubility increased in the presence of surfactant. However, addition of surfactant to the mineral salt media reduced the rate and extent of atrazine degradation by decreasing the bioavailability of herbicide. On the contrary, addition of surfactant to atrazine-contaminated soil increased the rate and extent of biodegradation by increasing the bioavailability of herbicide. As compared to triton X-100, rhamnolipids were more efficient in enhancing microbial degradation of atrazine as a significant amount of atrazine was removed from the soil by rhamnolipids. Surfactants added for the purpose of hastening microbial degradation may have an unintended inhibitory effect on herbicide degradation depending upon contiguous condition, thus highlighting the fact that surfactant must be judiciously used in bioremediation of herbicides.	1	pesticide
24031872	Bacillus thuringiensis monogenic strains: screening and interactions with insecticides used against rice pests.	The screening of Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) Cry proteins with high potential to control insect pests has been the goal of numerous research groups. In this study, we evaluated six monogenic Bt strains (Bt dendrolimus HD-37, Bt kurstaki HD-1, Bt kurstaki HD-73, Bt thuringiensis 4412, Bt kurstaki NRD-12 and Bt entomocidus 60.5, which codify the cry1Aa, cry1Ab, cry1Ac, cry1Ba, cry1C, cry2A genes respectively) as potential insecticides for the most important insect pests of irrigated rice: Spodoptera frugiperda, Diatraea saccharalis, Oryzophagus oryzae, Oebalus poecilus and Tibraca limbativentris. We also analyzed their compatibility with chemical insecticides (thiamethoxam, labdacyhalothrin, malathion and fipronil), which are extensively used in rice crops. The bioassay results showed that Bt thuringiensis 4412 and Bt entomocidus 60.5 were the most toxic for the lepidopterans, with a 93% and 82% mortality rate for S. frugiperda and D. saccharalis, respectively. For O. oryzae, the Bt kurstaki NRD-12 (64%) and Bt dendrolimus HD-37 (62%) strains were the most toxic. The Bt dendrolimus HD-37 strain also caused high mortality (82%) to O. poecilus, however the strains assessed to T. limbativentris caused a maximum rate of 5%. The assays for the Bt strains interaction with insecticides revealed the compatibility of the six strains with the four insecticides tested. The results from this study showed the high potential of cry1Aa and cry1Ba genes for genetic engineering of rice plants or the strains to biopesticide formulations. 	1	pesticide
24036434	Toxic effects of the herbicide Roundup in the guppy Poecilia vivipara acclimated to fresh water.	Although it is believed that glyphosate-based herbicides are relatively nontoxic to humans, its broad use in agriculture and consequent contamination of aquatic systems is a concern. In the present study, reproductive (sperm quality) and biochemical parameters (acetylcholinesterase and glutathione S-transferase activity, lipoperoxidation, and antioxidant capacity against peroxyl radicals) were evaluated in adult guppies (Poecilia vivipara) acclimated to fresh water and exposed (96 h) to environmentally realistic concentrations of glyphosate (130 and 700 μg L(-1)) as the commercial formulation Roundup. Male guppies exposed to Roundup showed a poorer sperm quality, measured as reduced plasmatic membrane integrity, mitochondrial functionality, DNA integrity, motility, motility period and concentration of spermatic cells, than those kept under control condition (no Roundup addition to the water). Most of the spermatic parameters analyzed showed strong association to each other, which may help to understand the mechanisms underlying the observed reduction in sperm quality. Exposure to Roundup did not alter the biochemical parameters analyzed, though differences between genders were observed and deserve further investigations. Findings from the present study suggest that exposure to environmentally relevant concentrations of Roundup may negatively affect at long-term the reproduction of P. vivipara, with consequent changes in fish populations inhabiting environments contaminated with the herbicide.	1	pesticide
24036489	Fungicides effectively used for growth inhibition of several fungi could induce mycotoxin biosynthesis in toxigenic species.	"Seven different commercial fungicides (Aliette, Rovral, Cantus, Ortiva, Luna Experience, Fenomenal and Mancozeb) were tested for their ability to inhibit the growth of the fungal species Penicillium nordicum, Penicillium verrucosum, Verticillium dahliae and Cladosporium sp. In case of the mycotoxigenic strains P. nordicum and P. verrucosum, the biosynthesis of the mycotoxins ochratoxin and citrinin was determined. Interestingly individual fungicides were only able to inhibit the growth of the analyzed fungi to some extent. In case of P. verrucosum the fungicide ""Rovral"", an iprodion belonging to the substance class of imidazoles, led to a decrease in the growth rate but to a strong induction of mycotoxin biosynthesis as has been described earlier for the strobilurins. Consequently before using a given fungicide to protect crops and enhance storage life, the applicability of this chemical compound should be tested not only for its ability to inhibit fungal growth but also for its effect on level of secondary metabolite biosynthesis. "	1	pesticide
24082506	Potentiation of the hepatic toxicity of carbon disulfide by chlordane.	OBJECTIVES: In this study, we investigated whether cytochrome P450s (CYPs) induced by a typical chlorinated hydrocarbon insecticide chlordane (CLD) potentiate hepatic toxicity of carbon disulfide (CS2). MATERIALS AND METHODS: Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with CLD (25 mg/kg, intraperitoneally (i.p.)) daily for 4 days, and 24 h after the final injection the rats were treated with CS2 (380 mg/kg, i.p.) in corn oil; while controls received the vehicle alone. The rats were then sacrificed at 3, 6, and 24 h following the CS2 treatment. RESULTS: It was found that at 3 h post-treatment, total hepatic glutathione (GSH) decreased modestly, but lipid peroxidation increased markedly, while all CLD-inducible CYPs (1A1, 2B1, 2E1, and 3A2) were inhibited by CS2 variably but significantly. On the other hand, samples taken at 24 h following the CS2 treatment showed a significant increase in relative liver weights, hepatic GSH and lipid peroxidation, microsomal reactive oxygen species (ROS), and serum alanine transaminase (ALT) level. Activity of the CYPs was also increased, but remained significantly depressed, especially that of CYP2B1. Livers removed at 3 and 6 h after CS2 treatment showed subtle to distinct apoptotic changes, while a severe lesion of hydropic degeneration of the centrilobular cells with apoptosis was microscopically distinguishable in samples taken at 24 h. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that the metabolism of CS2 by CLD-induced CYPs and the generation of lipid peroxides may have in concert contributed to the distinct hepatocellular damage.	1	pesticide
24085606	Impact of chemical- and bio-pesticides on bacterial diversity in rhizosphere of Vigna radiata.	To study the effects of two chemical pesticides (chlorpyrifos and endosulfan), and a bio-pesticide (azadirachtin) on bacterial diversity in rhizospheric soil, a randomized pot experiment was conducted on mung bean (Vigna radiata) with recommended and higher doses of pesticides. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis was used to analyze such effects on both resident and active bacterial communities across two time points. It was observed that higher doses of azadirachtin mimicked the effects of chlorpyrifos on bacterial diversity. Both azadirachtin and chlorpyrifos showed a dose- and time-dependent effect, which was observable only at the RNA level. Endosulfan treatments showed dissimilar profiles compared to control. Most of the bands showed high sequence similarities to known bacterial groups, including many nitrogen-fixing, phosphate-solubilizing, and plant-growth-promoting bacteria. This study indicates that pesticides display non-target effects on active microbial populations that serve important ecosystem functions, thereby emphasizing the need to critically investigate and validate the use of bio-pesticides in agriculture before accepting them as safe alternatives to chemical pesticides. 	1	pesticide
24143241	Using a hazard quotient to evaluate pesticide residues detected in pollen trapped from honey bees (Apis mellifera) in Connecticut.	Analysis of pollen trapped from honey bees as they return to their hives provides a method of monitoring fluctuations in one route of pesticide exposure over location and time. We collected pollen from apiaries in five locations in Connecticut, including urban, rural, and mixed agricultural sites, for periods from two to five years. Pollen was analyzed for pesticide residues using a standard extraction method widely used for pesticides (QuEChERS) and liquid chromatography/mass spectrometric analysis. Sixty pesticides or metabolites were detected. Because the dose lethal to 50% of adult worker honey bees (LD50) is the only toxicity parameter available for a wide range of pesticides, and among our pesticides there were contact LD50 values ranging from 0.006 to >1000 μg per bee (range 166,000X), and even among insecticides LD50 values ranged from 0.006 to 59.8 μg/bee (10,000X); therefore we propose that in studies of honey bee exposure to pesticides that concentrations be reported as Hazard Quotients as well as in standard concentrations such as parts per billion. We used both contact and oral LD50 values to calculate Pollen Hazard Quotients (PHQ = concentration in ppb ÷ LD50 as μg/bee) when both were available. In this study, pesticide Pollen Hazard Quotients ranged from over 75,000 to 0.01. The pesticides with the greatest Pollen Hazard Quotients at the maximum concentrations found in our study were (in descending order): phosmet, Imidacloprid, indoxacarb, chlorpyrifos, fipronil, thiamethoxam, azinphos-methyl, and fenthion, all with at least one Pollen Hazard Quotient (using contact or oral LD50) over 500. At the maximum rate of pollen consumption by nurse bees, a Pollen Hazard Quotient of 500 would be approximately equivalent to consuming 0.5% of the LD50 per day. We also present an example of a Nectar Hazard Quotient and the percentage of LD50 per day at the maximum nectar consumption rate. 	1	pesticide
24150492	Comparison of the organophosphorus hydrolase surface display using InaVN and Lpp-OmpA systems in Escherichia coli.	The purpose of this study was to compare the ability of an engineered Escherichia coli to degrade chlorpyrifos (Cp) using an organophosphorus hydrolase enzyme by employing the Lpp-OmpA chimera and the N-terminal domain of the ice nucleation protein as anchoring motifs. Tracing of the expression location of the recombinant protein using SDS-PAGE showed the presentation of OPH by both anchors on the outer membrane. This is the first report on the presentation of OPH on the cell surface by Lpp-OmpA under the control of the T7 promoter. The results showed cell growth in the presence of Cp as the sole source of energy, without growth inhibition, and with higher whole-cell activity for both cells harboring plasmids pENVO and pELMO, at approximately 10,342.85 and 10,857.14 U/mg, respectively. Noticeably, the protein displayed by pELMO was lower than the protein displayed by pENVO. It can be concluded that Lpp-OmpA can display less protein, but more functional OPH protein. These results highlight the high potential, of both engineered bacteria, for use in the bioremediation of pesticide-contaminated sources in the environment.	1	pesticide
24160846	A label-free silicon quantum dots-based photoluminescence sensor for ultrasensitive detection of pesticides.	Sensitive, rapid, and simple detection methods for the screening of extensively used organophosphorus pesticides and highly toxic nerve agents are in urgent demand. A novel label-free silicon quantum dots (SiQDs)-based sensor was designed for ultrasensitive detection of pesticides. This sensing strategy involves the reaction of acetylcholine chloride (ACh) with acetylcholinesterase (AChE) to form choline that is in turn catalytically oxidized by choline oxidase (ChOx) to produce betaine and H2O2 which can quench the photoluminescence (PL) of SiQDs. Upon the addition of pesticides, the activity of AChE is inhibited, leading to the decrease of the generated H2O2, and hence the PL of SiQDs increases. By measuring the increase in SiQDs PL, the inhibition efficiency of pesticide to AChE activity was evaluated. It was found that the inhibition efficiency was linearly dependent on the logarithm of the pesticides concentration. Consequently, pesticides, such as carbaryl, parathion, diazinon, and phorate, were determined with the SiQDs PL sensing method. The lowest detectable concentrations for carbaryl, parathion, diazinon, and phorate reached 7.25 × 10(-9), 3.25 × 10(-8), 6.76 × 10(-8), and 1.9 × 10(-7) g/L, respectively, which were much lower than those previously reported. The detecting results of pesticide residues in food samples via this method agree well with those from high-performance liquid chromatography. The simple strategy reported here should be suitable for on-site pesticides detection, especially in combination with other portable platforms. 	1	pesticide
24178263	Tubulin-isotype analysis of two grass species-resistant to dinitroaniline herbicides.	Trifluralin-resistant biotypes of Eleusine indica (L.) Gaertn. (goosegrass) and Setaria viridis (L.) Beauv. (green foxtail) exhibit cross-resistance to other dinitroaniline herbicides. Since microtubules are considered the primary target site for dinitroaniline herbicides we investigated whether the differential sensitivity of resistant and susceptible biotypes of these species results from modified tubulin polypeptides. One-dimensional and two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis combined with immunoblotting using well-characterised anti-tubulin monoclonal antibodies were used to display the family of tubulin isotypes in each species. Seedlings of E. indica exhibited four β-tubulin isotypes and one α-tubulin isotype, whereas those of S. viridis exhibited two β-tubulin and two α-tubulin isotypes. Comparison of the susceptible and resistant biotypes within each species revealed no differences in electrophoretic properties of the multiple tubulin isotypes. These results provide no evidence that resistance to dinitroaniline herbicides is associated with a modified tubulin polypeptide in these biotypes of E. indica or S. viridis. 	1	pesticide
24178502	Evidence for loss of D1 protein during photoinhibition of Chenopodium rubrum L. culture cells.	The effects of high-light stress on chlorophyllfluorescence parameters, D1-protein turnover and the actual level of this protein were analysed in nitrogen-deficient and nitrogen-replete cells of Chenopodium rubrum L. Changes in the number of atrazine-binding sites and in the D1-protein immunoblot signal indicated that a net loss of D1 protein occurred in high light and was partly reversible in low light. Nitrogen deficiency did not exacerbate these changes. The involvement of D1-protein turnover was shown in pulse-chase experiments with [(35)S]-methionine and by the application of a chloroplastic protein-synthesis inhibitor (chloramphenicol). The slowly reversible non-photochemical fluorescence quenching increased pronouncedly when D1 protein was lost at high irradiances, but its increase was only small when a net loss of D1 protein was produced at moderate irradiances by addition of chloramphenicol. The ratio of variable to maximum fluorescence, Fv/Fm, and the number of atrazine-binding sites were correlated but a proportionality between these parameters could not be observed. We conclude from these results that (i) degradation of D1 protein was not always coupled to its resynthesis, (ii) the actual level of D1 protein reflected the balance between degradation and resynthesis of D1 protein and (iii) changes in the level of D1 protein did not depend on a pronounced increase of the slowly reversible non-photochemical quenching. 	1	pesticide
24197220	Isolation and characterization of fenobucarb-degrading bacteria from rice paddy soils.	Forty-five fenobucarb-degrading bacteria were isolated from rice paddy soils, and their genetic and phenotypic characteristics were investigated. The isolates were able to utilize fenobucarb as a sole source of carbon and energy. Analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequence indicated that all the isolates were related to members of the genera Sphingobium and Novosphingobium. Among 45 isolates, 21 different chromosomal DNA fingerprinting patterns were obtained. All these strains exhibited similar growth and degradation patterns on fenobucarb. 2-sec-butylphenol was identified as an intermediate during fenobucarb degradation by HPLC analysis. All of the isolates were able to degrade another carbamate insecticide, carbaryl, and 2-sec-butylphenol, but not other fenobucarb related compounds such as aldicarb and fenoxycarb. Representative strains of the different repetitive extragenic palindromic sequence PCR fingerprint types had one to six plasmids. The plasmid-cured strains lost their degradation abilities, suggesting that fenobucarb degradative genes were on their plasmid DNAs in these strains. When analyzed with PCR amplification using the primers targeting for the previously reported carbamate hydrolase genes, most of the isolates did not exhibit any positive signals for different genes involved in carbamate degradation such as mcd, cahA and cehA genes. This is the first report that microorganisms involved in the degradation of fenobucarb have been isolated and the intermediate of fenobucarb biodegradation was identified.	1	pesticide
24201552	Survival and behaviour of captive Mallard broods exposed to carbofuran-sprayed vegetation: a field experiment.	: A field study was undertaken to determine the effects of exposure to vegetation sprayed with carbofuran (2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranylmethyl carbamate) on the survival and behavior of Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) ducklings. Pairs of captive hens with newly hatched broods of five to eight ducklings were released into sprayed or control 200 m long walkways leading directly to 0.1 ha pond enclosures. Carbofuran was applied at 132 and 264 g a.i. ha(-1) during five and four replicate trials, respectively. Broods were observed during the walk, and activity was recorded systematically during four 2-h periods over the following two days. Dead or abandoned ducklings were retrieved and brain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity was determined. Carbofuran did not affect the rate of duckling loss on the day of exposure at either spray rate compared with that of controls (3/34 versus 3/38 ducklings and 3/31 versus 0/31 ducklings, respectively). Nevertheless, one and three of the abandoned or dead ducklings in the low and high spray-rate trials, respectively, exhibited depression of brain AChE activity associated with mortality caused by anticholinesterase compounds (16 to 47% of mean control activity). Although no significant differences were detected in duckling behaviour between treated and control broods at either exposure level, treated broods tended to spend a larger proportion of time hidden in emergent vegetation. The ingestion of carbofuran by ducklings walking through sprayed vegetation appears to be the critical mode of intake, with dermal absorption being minimal. 	1	pesticide
24224233	Effect of Bt maize and soil insecticides on yield, injury, and rootworm survival: implications for resistance management.	A 2-yr field experiment was conducted to determine the effects on Diabrotica spp. (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) of an insecticidal seed treatment (Poncho 1250, (AI)/clothianidin) and a granular insecticide (Aztec 2.1G, (AI)/tebupirimphos and cyfluthrin) alone and in combination with maize producing the insectidical toxin Cry3Bb1 derived from the bacterium Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt). Yields for Bt maize plots were significantly greater than for non-Bt maize; however, insecticides did not significantly affect yield. Insecticides significantly decreased root injury in non-Bt maize plots, but there were no significant differences in root injury between Bt maize with or without either insecticide. Maize producing the Bt toxin Cry3Bb1 and the soil-applied insecticide Aztec significantly decreased survival of western corn rootworm (Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte), while only Bt maize significantly decreased survival of the northern corn rootworm (Diabrotica barberi Smith & Lawrence). For both species, Bt maize and each of the insecticides delayed emergence. In the absence of density-dependent mortality, Bt maize imposed 71 and 80% reduction in survival on the western corn rootworm and the northern corn rootworm, respectively. The data from this study do not support combining insecticide with Bt maize because the addition of insecticide did not increase yield or reduce root injury for Bt maize, and the level of rootworm mortality achieved with conventional insecticide was likely too low to delay the evolution of Bt resistance. In addition, delays in emergence from Bt maize combined with insecticides could promote assortative mating among Bt-selected individuals, which may hasten resistance evolution.	1	pesticide
24224248	The potential for controlling Pangaeus bilineatus (Heteroptera: Cydnidae) using a combination of entomopathogens and an insecticide.	The peanut burrower bug, Pangaeus bilineatus (Say), is an important pest of peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) in the southern United States. Current control methods for this pest, which are based on the use of chemical insecticides, have not been successful. Our objective was to determine if entomopathogens applied alone or in combination with a standard chemical insecticide would provide superior levels of P. bilineatus mortality compared with the standard chemical applied alone. Specifically, we investigated the efficacy of an entomopathogenic nematode, Heterorhabditis bacteriophora Poinar (Oswego strain), and a fungus, Beauveria bassiana (Balsamo) Vuillemin (GHA strain), applied alone or in combination with chlorpyrifos. When applied as single treatments, the two entomopathogens were not pathogenic, that is, they did not cause mortality in P. bilineatus adults that was different from the nontreated control. However, 3 and 7 d posttreatment, the combination of the H. bacteriophora and chlorpyrifos caused higher mortality than the nematode, fungus, or insecticide alone, or the combination of chlorpyrifos and B. bassiana. The nature of the interaction between H. bacteriophora and chlorpyrifos was synergistic, which is of particular interest, given that this is the first time a synergy is being reported between a nematode that was not pathogenic when applied alone and a chemical insecticide. B. bassiana and its combination with the chlorpyrifos did not significantly increase insect mortality compared with chlorpyrifos alone or the control. Based on the observation of synergy, the combination of H. bacteriophora and chlorpyrifos should be investigated further for potential adoption in the management of P. bilineatus.	1	pesticide
24226668	Simultaneous determination of benomyl and morestan residues in waters by synchronous solid-phase spectrofluorimetry.	In this paper a new, sensitive, and simple method for simultaneous determination of pesticides morestan and benomyl at trace levels in waters is reported. Both chemicals, showing native fluorescence in solution at neutral medium, were fixed on C-18 silica gel at pH 1, giving a fluorescent system. The benomyl-morestan-silica gel system, after dry, was packed in a 1-mm silica cell and its synchronous fluorescence spectra were recorded at δλ=80 nm for determination of benomyl and δλ=25 nm for determination of morestan. Measurements of fluorescence were performed at λ1=289 nm and λ2=367 nm for benomyl and morestan analysis, respectively. The applicable concentration ranges were from 0.5 to 15.0 ng·ml(-1) for benomyl and from 0.6 to 15.0 ng·ml(-1) for morestan, with relative standard deviations of 1.2 and 1.5% for benomyl and morestan, respectively, being 0.15 and 0.18 ng·ml(-1) its respective detection limits. The method was applied to the simultaneous determination of residues of both pesticides in water of different provenances. 	1	pesticide
24246238	Environmental determinants of the urinary concentrations of herbicides during pregnancy: the PELAGIE mother-child cohort (France).	Herbicides are generally the most extensively used of the pesticides applied to agricultural crops. However, the literature contains little evidence useful in assessing the potential sources of the general population's exposure to herbicides, including by residential proximity to crops. The objective of this study was to take advantage of data from the PELAGIE mother-child cohort to identify the main determinants of the body burden of exposure to the chloroacetanilide and triazine herbicides commonly used on corn crops in Brittany, France, before 2006. Urine samples from a randomly selected subcohort of women in the first trimester of pregnancy (n=579) were assayed for herbicide metabolites. The residential exposure resulting from proximity to corn crops was assessed with satellite-image-based scores combined with meteorological data. Data on diet, drinking tap water (from the public water supply), occupations, and household herbicide use were collected by questionnaires. Herbicides were quantified in 5.3% to 39.7% of urine samples. Alachlor and acetochlor were found most frequently in the urine of women living in rural areas. The presence of dealkylated triazine metabolites in urine samples was positively associated with residential proximity to corn crops (OR=1.38, 95% CI: 1.05-1.80). Urinary metabolites of both atrazine and dealkylated triazine were correlated with tap water consumption (OR=2.94, 1.09-7.90, and OR=1.82, 1.10-3.03, respectively); hydroxylated triazine metabolites were correlated with fish intake (OR=1.48, 1.09-1.99). This study reinforces previous results that suggest that environmental contamination resulting from agricultural activities may contribute to the general population's exposure to herbicides. 	1	pesticide
24254543	Organochlorine residues in adult mallard and black duck wings, 1981-1982.	Ten organochlorine compounds were identified in pools of black duck (Anas rubripes) and mallard (A. platyrhynchos) wings from the 1981-82 hunting season. Most organochlorine compounds occurred very infrequently. Among those compounds positively identified by mass spectrometry, DDE and, secondarily, PCB had the highest frequencies of occurrence. Other compounds, positively identified and occurring less frequently, included DDT, DDD, DDMU, dieldrin, heptachlor epoxide, trans-nonachlor, cis-chlordane and mirex. Compounds looked for but not positively identified include oxychlordane, cis-nonachlor, endrin, hexachlorobenzene and toxaphene. PCB levels in black duck wings declined between the 1979-80 and 1981-82 collections. PCB levels in black duck wings from the northern region of the Atlantic Flyway were higher than those in wings from the southern region. Mean DDE residues in mallard wings declined between collections and differed among flyways and regions. PCB levels in mallard wings differed only among flyways and regions. 	1	pesticide
24265808	Qualitative profiling and quantification of neonicotinoid metabolites in human urine by liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry.	Neonicotinoid pesticides have been widely applied for the production of fruits and vegetables, and occasionally detected in conventionally grown produce. Thus oral exposure to neonicotinoid pesticides may exist in the general population; however, neonicotinoid metabolites in human body fluids have not been investigated comprehensively. The purpose of this study is the qualitative profiling and quantitative analysis of neonicotinoid metabolites in the human spot urine by liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (LC/MS). Human urine samples were collected from three patients suspected of subacute exposure to neonicotinoid pesticides. A qualitative profiling of urinary metabolites was performed using liquid chromatography/time-of-flight mass spectrometry (LC/TOFMS) with a database of nominal molecular weights of 57 known metabolites of three neonicotinoid pesticides (acetamiprid, Imidacloprid, and clothianidin), as well as the parent compounds. Then a quantitative analysis of selected urinary metabolites was performed using liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) with a standard pesticide and metabolite, which were detected by the qualitative profiling. The result of qualitative profiling showed that seven metabolites, i.e. an acetamiprid metabolite, N-desmethyl-acetamiprid; three Imidacloprid metabolites, 5-hydroxy-Imidacloprid, 4,5-dihydroxy-imidacloprid, 4,5-dehydro-Imidacloprid; a common metabolite of acetamiprid and Imidacloprid, N-(6-chloronicotinoyl)-glycine; and two clothianidin metabolites, N-desmethyl-clothianidin, N-(2-(methylsulfanyl)thiazole-5-carboxyl)-glycine, as well as acetamiprid, were detected in the urine of three cases. The result of the quantitative analysis showed N-desmethyl-acetamiprid was determined in the urine of one case, which had been collected on the first visit, at a concentration of 3.2 ng/mL. This is the first report on the qualitative and quantitative detection of N-desmethyl-acetamiprid in the human urine. The results suggest that the one case with detection of N-desmethyl-acetamiprid was exposed to acetamiprid through the consumption of contaminated foods. Urinary N-desmethyl-acetamiprid, as well as 5-hydroxy-Imidacloprid and N-desmethyl-clothianidin, may be a good biomarker for neonicotinoid exposure in humans and warrants further investigation. 	1	pesticide
24265829	The effect of AMF suppression on plant species composition in a nutrient-poor dry grassland.	Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) are expected to be one of the key drivers determining the diversity of natural plant communities, especially in nutrient-poor and dry habitats. Several previous studies have explored the importance of AMF for the composition of plant communities in various types of habitats. Surprisingly, studies of the role of AMF in nutrient-poor dry grassland communities dominated by less mycotrophic plant species are still relatively rare. We present the results of a 3-year study in which a plant community in a species-rich dry grassland was subjected to the fungicide carbendazim to suppress AMF colonization. We tested the effect of the fungicide on the following parameters: the plant species composition; the number of plant species; the cover of the rare, highly mycorrhiza-dependent species Aster amellus; the cover of the dominant, less mycorrhiza-dependent species Brachypodium pinnatum; and the cover of graminoids and perennial forbs. In addition, we examined the mycorrhizal inoculation potential of the soil. We found that the suppression of AMF with fungicide resulted in substantial changes in plant species composition and significant decrease in species richness, the cover of A. amellus and the cover of perennial forbs. In contrast the species increasing their cover after fungicide application were graminoids--the C3 grasses B. pinnatum and Bromus erectus and the sedge Carex flacca. These species appear to be less mycorrhiza dependent. Moreover, due to their clonal growth and efficient nutrient usage, they are, most likely, better competitors than perennial forbs under fungicide application. Our results thus suggest that AMF are an essential part of the soil communities supporting a high diversity of plant species in species-rich dry grasslands in nutrient-poor habitats. The AMF are especially important for the maintenance of the populations of perennial forbs, many of which are rare and endangered in the area.	1	pesticide
24270827	Somatic hybridization of an atrazine resistant biotype of Solanum nigrum with Solanum tuberosum : Part 1: Clonal variation in morphology and in atrazine sensitivity.	Plants were regenerated from protoplast fusion experiments with haploid Solanum tuberosum L. and an atrazine resistant biotype of the normally susceptible S. nigrum L. Sixty clones which were unlike the parents were selected by types of hairs and leaf pigmentation of young shoots and characterized by: chromosome numbers, response to atrazine, branching, hairs of the calyx, shapes and pigmentation of leaves, and morphology of flowers. Twenty five clones showed vegetatively stable differences from the parental clones; enough combinations of mixed characters suggested the clear origin from fusants of at least nine clones. Observed diversities within and between protoplastderived clones are interpreted as expressions of variation during the development of the regenerants. 	1	pesticide
24272263	Molecular basis for the overproduction of 5-enolpyruvylshikimate 3-phosphate synthase in a glyphosate-tolerant cell suspension culture of Corydalis sempervirens.	Cell cultures of Corydalis sempervirens adapted to growth in the presence of 5 mM glyphosate [N-(phosphonomethyl)glycine] display a 30- to 40-fold increase in the cellular content of 5-enolpyruvylshikimic acid 3-phosphate (EPSP) synthase, the target enzyme of the herbicide. Translatable mRNA activity as well as transcript levels for EPSP synthase were increased 8-to 12-fold in the adapted (glyphosate-tolerant) as compared to the non-adapted (glyphosate-sensitive) cultures. Northern blot analysis revealed a single 1.8 kb transcript after hybridization with an oligonucleotide probe deduced from the N-terminal amino acid sequence of the enzyme. No significant differences in the relative abundance of EPSP synthase-specific DNA sequences could be detected, however, in Southern and dot blot analyses of restricted DNA isolated from the two cultures. We conclude that the overproduction of EPSP synthase in glyphosate-tolerant C. sempervirens cells is not based on the amplification of the corresponding gene. 	1	pesticide
24308380	Effective extraction method for determination of neonicotinoid residues in tea.	Sample preparation using an absorbent for removal of polyphenols and a solid-phase extraction (SPE) cartridge for cleanup followed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) has been investigated for the simultaneous determination of eight neonicotinoid insecticides (dinotefuran, nitenpyram, thiamethoxam, imidacloprid, clothianidin, imidaclothiz, acetamiprid, and thiacloprid). After tea samples were soaked with water and extracted with acetonitrile, sample extracts were treated with an appropriate amount of polyvinylpolypyrrolidone (PVPP) to effectively remove polyphenols. The treated extract was cleaned up with a Carb-PSA cartridge. Neonicotinoid insecticides were eluted with acetonitrile from the cartridge and dried. The extract was redissolved with methanol/water (1:9, v/v) and analyzed by conventional HPLC coupled with an ultraviolet detector. The recoveries of eight neonicotinoid insecticides in tea samples were 71.4-106.6% at 0.1-1.0 mg kg(-1) spiked levels. Relative standard deviations were <10% for all of the recovery tests. The established method was simple, effective, and accurate and could be used for monitoring neonicotinoid insecticides in tea. 	1	pesticide
24317226	Evaluation of pyrethroid exposures in pregnant women from 10 Caribbean countries.	Pyrethroid pesticides are commonly used in tropical regions such as the Caribbean as household insecticides, pet sprays, and where malaria is endemic, impregnated into mosquito-repellent nets. Of particular concern is exposure during pregnancy, as these compounds have the potential to cross the placental barrier and interfere with fetal development, as was shown in limited animal studies. The objective of this study was to evaluate exposure to pyrethroids to pregnant women residing in 10 English-speaking Caribbean countries. Pyrethroid exposures were determined by analyzing five pyrethroid metabolites in urine samples from 295 pregnant women: cis-DBCA, cis-DCCA, trans-DCCA, 3-PBA, and 4-F-3-PBA. Pyrethroid metabolite concentrations in Caribbean pregnant women were generally higher in the 10 Caribbean countries than levels reported for Canadian and U.S. women. In Antigua & Barbuda and Jamaica participants the geometric mean concentrations of cis-DBCA was significantly higher than in the other nine countries together (p<0.0001 and <0.0012 respectively). For cis- and trans-DCCA, only Antigua & Barbuda women differed significantly from participants of the other nine Caribbean countries (p<0.0001). Urinary 4-F-3-PBA and 3-PBA levels were significantly higher in Antigua & Barbuda (p<0.0028 and p<0.0001 respectively) as well as in Grenada (p<0.0001 and p<0.007 respectively). These results indicate extensive use of pyrethroid compounds such as permethrin and cypermethrin in Caribbean households. In Antigua & Barbuda, the data reveals a greater use of deltamethrin. This study underscores the need for Caribbean public health authorities to encourage their populations, and in particular pregnant women, to utilize this class of pesticides more judiciously given the potentially adverse effects of exposure on fetuses and infants. 	1	pesticide
24330734	Impact of land-use on malaria transmission in the Plateau region, southeastern Benin.	BACKGROUND: The goal of the study is to investigate if local agricultural practices have an impact on malaria transmission in four villages located in the same geographical area within a radius of 15 kilometers. Among the villages, one (Itassoumba) is characterized by the presence of a large market garden and fishpond basins, the three others (Itakpako, Djohounkollé and Ko-koumolou) are characterized by traditional food-producing agriculture. METHODS: Malaria transmission was evaluated using human-landing catches, both indoors and outdoors, two nights per month for 12 months. Field collected females An. gambiae s.l. were exposed for 1 hour to 0.75% permethrin and 0.05% deltamethrin using WHO insecticide susceptibility test kits and procedures. The presence of the kdr mutation was analyzed by PCR. RESULTS: Anopheles gambiae s.s form M (93.65%), was identified as the main malaria vector. Its susceptibility level to pyrethroids was the same (p > 0.05) in all villages. kdr mutation frequencies are 81.08 in Itakpako, 85 in Itassoumba, 79.73 in Djohounkollé and 86.84 in Ko-Koumolou (p = 0.63). The entomological inoculation rate ranged from 9.62 to 21.65 infected bites of An. gambiae per human per year in Djohounkollé, Itakpako and Ko-Koumolou against 1159.62 in Itassoumba (p < 0.0001). CONCLUSION: The level of resistance of An. gambiae to pyrethroids was the same in the four villages. The heterogeneous character of malaria epidemiology was confirmed. The creation of fishponds basins and the development of market-gardening activities increased drastically the malaria transmission in Itassoumba.	1	pesticide
24363690	Effect of cooking process on the residues of three carbamate pesticides in rice.	"A gas chromatography mass spectrometry with spike calibration curve method was used to quantify three carbamate pesticides residue in cooked white rice and to estimate the reduction percentage of the cooking process duration. The selected pesticides are three carbamate pesticides including carbaryl and pirimicarb that their MRL is issued by ""The Institute of Standards of Iran"" and propoxur which is used as a widely consumed pesticide in rice. THE ANALYTICAL METHOD ENTAILED THE FOLLOWING STEPS: 1- Blending 15 g cooked sample with 120 mL acetonitrile for 1 min in solvent proof blender, 2- Adding 6 g NaCl and blending for 1 min, 3- Filtering upper layer through 25 g anhydrous Na2SO4, 4- Cleaning up with PSA and MgSO4, 5- Centrifuging for 7 min, 6- Evaporating about 0.3 mL and reconstituting in toluene till 1 mL, 7- Injecting 2 μL extract into GC/MS and analyzing by single quadruple selected ion monitoring GC/MS-SQ-SIM. The concentration of pesticides and the percentage of pesticides amounts after the cooking were determined by gas chromatography mass-spectrometry (GC/MS) using with interpolation of the relative peak areas for each pesticide to internal standard peak area in the sample on the spiked calibration curve. Calibration curve was linear over the range of 25 to 1000 ng/g, and LOQ was 25 ng/g for all three pesticides. The percent of loss for the three pesticides were 78%, 55% and 35% for carbaryl, propoxur and pirimicarb respectively. Different parameters such as vapor pressure, boiling point, and suspect ability of the compound to hydrolysis, could be responsible for the losing of pesticides during the cooking process."	1	pesticide
24364441	Survey of pesticide application on vegetables in the Littoral area of Togo.	Vegetable production in Togo is seriously affected by pests attack. To reduce damage, farmers indiscriminately use pesticides. Various studies have reported high concentrations of pesticide residues more than acceptable limits in vegetables and other edible food. The aim of the presented study is to study the attitudes and practices developed by vegetable growers about pesticides applications. A standardized questionnaires which included socio-professional factors, provisions and operations concerning the use of varieties of pesticides were addressed to 150 growers in vegetable farms along the Littoral of Togo. In order to complete data concerning pesticides, seven runoff private companies and agents of the 'Direction de la Protection des Végétaux' were interviewed. Data were statistical treated using Sphinx Plus. The survey showed that vegetable growers have an acceptable educational level (36% have more than 7 years of formal education) to exploit instructions concerning pesticide use, but more than 97% do not use recommended tools. Only 21% of them received training for pesticide use. Moreover, 84% of them did not usually wear gloves, and less than 30% used oro-nasal masks. Failure to observe minimum intervals between pesticide application and sale is worrying because extremely hazardous (Carbofuran and Cadusaphos) or moderately toxic (Cypermethrin, Dimethoate, Endosulfan, Chlorpyrifos-ethyl, Fipronil) are the products currently used. The presented study indicates that pesticides application in the survey area represents a potential risk for the environment, farmers and consumers. More investigations are needed to quantify pesticides residues on the vegetables currently con,umed and moreover, to determine the potential effect of those products on human and animals health. 	1	pesticide
24364696	Design, synthesis, crystal structures, and insecticidal activities of eight-membered azabridge neonicotinoid analogues.	Three series of novel azabridge neonicotinoid analogues were designed and synthesized, which were constructed by starting material A, glutaraldehyde, and primary amine hydrochlorides (aliphatic amines, phenylhydrazines, and anilines). Most of the eight-membered azabridge compounds presented higher insecticidal activities than oxabridged compound B against cowpea aphid (Aphis craccivora) and brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens). Compared with imidacloprid, some azabridged compounds exhibited excellent insecticidal activity against brown planthopper. The crystal structures and bioassay indicated that changing bridge atoms from O to N could lead to entirely different conformations, which might be the important influential factor of the bioactivities.	1	pesticide
24369607	[Determination of butene-fipronil residue in dry samples by multiple adsorption synchronous purification-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry].	A method was developed for the determination of butene-fipronil residue in dry samples by multiple adsorption synchronous purification (MASP) -gas chromatography (GC) -mass spectrometry (MS). After extracted with 1% acetic acid-acetonitrile, the samples were pretreated with MASP method including extraction, salting-out and purification procedures, and analyzed with GC-MS under the selected ion monitoring (SIM) mode, and then quantified by matrix-match standard solution with external standard method. The results showed good linearity in the range of 2 - 100 microg/L with the correlation coefficients (r(2)) not less than 0.999. The average fortified recovery of butene-fipronil in samples was found in the range of 92.2% - 97.5% at three fortified levels from 2 to 10 microg/kg, with the relative standard deviations of 2.69% - 5.21% (n = 6). The limit of detection (S/N = 3) for butane-fipronil was 2 microg/kg and the limit of quantification (S/N = 10) was 6 microg/kg. The method is simple, rapid and accurate, and could be used for the routine analysis of butane-fipronil in dry samples. Meanwhile, the pyrolysis mechanism of butane-fipronil, as a new substance, is discussed.	1	pesticide
24370860	Community air monitoring for pesticides-part 2: multiresidue determination of pesticides in air by gas chromatography, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry.	Two multiresidue methods were developed to determine pesticides in air collected in California. Pesticides were trapped using XAD-4 resin and extracted with ethyl acetate. Based on an analytical method from the University of California Davis Trace Analytical Laboratory, pesticides were detected by analyzing the extract by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) to determine chlorothalonil, chlorthal-dimethyl, cycloate, dicloran, dicofol, EPTC, ethalfluralin, iprodione, mefenoxam, metolachlor, PCNB, permethrin, pronamide, simazine, trifluralin, and vinclozolin. A GC with a flame photometric detector was used to determine chlorpyrifos, chlorpyrifos oxon, diazinon, diazinon oxon, dimethoate, dimethoate oxon, fonophos, fonophos oxon, malathion, malathion oxon, naled, and oxydemeton. Trapping efficiencies ranged from 78 to 92 % for low level (0.5 μg) and 37-104 % for high level (50 and 100 μg) recoveries. Little to no degradation of compounds occurred over 31 days; recoveries ranged from 78 to 113 %. In the California Department of Food and Agriculture (CDFA) method, pesticides were detected by analyzing the extract by GC-MS to determine chlorothalonil, chlorpyrifos, cypermethrin, dichlorvos, dicofol, endosulfan 1, endosulfan sulfate, oxyfluorfen, permethrin, propargite, and trifluralin. A liquid chromatograph coupled to a MS was used to determine azinphos-methyl, chloropyrifos oxon, DEF, diazinon, diazinon oxon, dimethoate, dimethoate oxon, diuron, EPTC, malathion, malathion oxon, metolachlor, molinate, norflurazon, oryzalin, phosmet, propanil, simazine and thiobencarb. Trapping efficiencies for compounds determined by the CDFA method ranged from 10 to 113, 22 to 114, and 56 to 132 % for 10, 5, and 2 μg spikes, respectively. Storage tests yielded 70-170 % recovery for up to 28 days. These multiresidue methods represent flexible, sensitive, accurate, and cost-effective ways to determine residues of various pesticides in ambient air. 	1	pesticide
24377448	Comparative and combined acute toxicity of butachlor, imidacloprid and chlorpyrifos on earthworm, Eisenia fetida.	Various pesticides have become widespread contaminants of soils due to their large applications in agriculture and homes. An earthworm assay was used to assess the acute toxicity of butachlor, imidacloprid and chlorpyrifos with different modes of action. Ecotoxicities of these pesticides were compared for earthworm Eisenia fetida separately and in combination in artificial soil and contact filter paper tests. Imidacloprid was the most toxic for E. fetida with LC₅₀ (lethal concentration 50) values three orders magnitude lower than that of butachlor and chlorpyrifos in both tests. The toxicity of the mixtures was compared to that predicted by the concentration addition (CA) model. According to the CA model, the observed toxicities of all binary mixtures were less than additive. However, for all the mixtures in 14 d artificial soil test, and mixtures of butachlor plus chlorpyrifos and imidacloprid plus chlorpyrifos in 48 h contact filter paper test, the difference in toxicity was less than 30%, hence it was concluded that the mixtures conformed to CA. The combined effects of the pesticides in contact filter paper tests were not consistent with the results in artificial soil toxicity tests, which may be associated with the interaction of soil salts with the pesticides. The CA model provides estimates of mixture toxicity that did not markedly underestimate the measured toxicity, and therefore the CA model is the most suitable to use in ecological risk assessments of the pesticides.	1	pesticide
24377499	Determination of pesticide residue transfer rates (percent) from dried tea leaves to brewed tea.	This paper presents a study on pesticide residue transfer rates (%) from dried tea leaves to brewed tea. In the study, a brewing procedure simulated the preparation of a hot tea drink as in routine. After brewing, pesticide residues were extracted from brewed tea using a method known as QuEChERS (quick, easy, cheap, effective, rugged, and safe). An UHPLC/ESI-MS/MS method was developed and validated to identify and quantify up to 172 pesticides in both tea leaves and brewed tea samples. Quantification was achieved using matrix-matched standard calibration curves with isotopically labeled standards or a chemical analogue as internal standards, and the calibration curves consisted of six points (0.4, 2.0, 8.0, 16.0, 24.0, and 40.0 μg/L equivalent in sample). The method was validated at four concentration levels (4.0, 12, 20.0, and 32.0 μg/L equivalent in sample) using five different brewed tea matrices on two separate days per matrix. Method performance parameters included overall recovery, intermediate precision, and measurement uncertainty, which were evaluated according to a nested experimental design. Approximately, 95% of the pesticides studied had recoveries between 81 and 110%, intermediate precision ≤20%, and measurement uncertainty ≤40%. From a pilot study of 44 incurred tea samples, pesticide residues were examined for their ability to transfer from dried tea leaves to brewed tea. Each sample, both tea leaves and brewed tea, was analyzed in duplicate. Pesticides were found to have different transfer rates (%). For example, imidacloprid, methomyl, and carbendazim had transfer rates of 84.9, 83.4, and 92.4%, respectively. 	1	pesticide
24398080	Effect of selected insecticides on Lygus hesperus (Heteroptera: Miridae) oviposition behavior in cotton.	Oviposition behavior of western tarnished plant bug, Lygus hesperus Knight, as affected by residual insecticides, was studied in potted as well as field-grown cotton. In this study, we investigated the spatial distribution and phytotomical preference of Lygus oviposition in presquaring and blooming cotton, as affected by selected insecticides. Flonicamid, acephate, and cypermethrin were applied to cotton at 82, 516, and 114 g (active ingredient)/ha, respectively. At 3 d posttreatment, a gravid female Lygus was caged on the plants. After 4 d, caged plants were harvested and eggs were counted by whole plant dissection. Results indicated significantly greater egg deposition in untreated controls than treated plants in both potted and field-grown cotton. For untreated plants, Lygus preferred to oviposit on the pulvinus and leaf petiole, where 76 and 85% of eggs were laid in potted and field-grown cotton, respectively. For insecticide-treated plants, no plant structure preference was observed, although fewer eggs were laid. The upper stratum of the plant canopy had significantly more eggs than the lower or middle strata of untreated plants, while more eggs were observed in the middle strata of plants treated with acephate in field-grown cotton. Sublethal effects could not be adequately assessed in the cypermethrin treatment owing to high Lygus mortality. 	1	pesticide
24401412	Development of soybean certified reference material for pesticide residue analysis.	A soybean certified reference material for pesticide residue analysis was developed by the National Metrology Institute of Japan. Three organophosphorus (diazinon, fenitrothion, chlorphyrifos) and one pyrethroid (permethrin) pesticides were sprayed on soybeans three times before harvest. These soybeans were freeze pulverized, homogenized, bottled, and sterilized by γ-irradiation to prepare the candidate material. Three isotope-dilution mass spectrometric methods that varied in terms of the solvents used for extraction of the target pesticides, the clean-up procedure, and the injection techniques and columns used for quantification via gas chromatography/mass spectrometry were applied to the characterization. Each target pesticide was quantified by two of these analytical methods, and the results were in good agreement. Homogeneity and stability assessment of the material demonstrated that the relative standard uncertainties due to the inhomogeneity and the instability for an expiry date of 55 months were 1.89-4.00% and 6.65-11.5%, respectively. The certified pesticide concentrations with expanded uncertainties (coverage factor k=2, approximate 95% confidence interval) calculated using the results of the characterization and the homogeneity and stability assessment were 21.7 ± 3.2 μg/kg for diazinon, 88 ± 21 μg/kg for fenitrothion, 11.1 ± 3.2 μg/kg for chlorpyrifos, and 20.1 ± 4.3 μg/kg for permethrin (as the sum of the constituent isomers).	1	pesticide
24406324	Species-dependent effects of biochar amendment on bioaccumulation of atrazine in earthworms.	We observed that at a contamination level of 4.25 mg-atrazine/kg-soil, the biota-soil accumulation factor (BSAF) for the anecic M. guillelmi is approximately 5 times that for the epigeic E. foetida. This is attributable to the fact that bio-uptake by E. foetida is mainly through dermal absorption, whereas bio-uptake by M. guillelmi is largely affected by the gut processes, through which the physical grinding and surfactant-like materials facilitate the desorption of atrazine from soil. Strikingly, biochar amendment resulted in much greater reduction in BSAF for M. guillelmi than for E. foetida. At a biochar dose of 0.5% (wt:wt) the difference in BSAF between the two species became much smaller, and at a dose of 2% no statistical difference was observed. A likely explanation is that gut processes by M. guillelmi were much less effective in extracting atrazine from the biochar (the predominant phase wherein atrazine resided) than from soil particles.	1	pesticide
24446395	Current state of herbicides in herbicide-resistant crops.	Current herbicide and herbicide trait practices are changing in response to the rapid spread of glyphosate-resistant weeds. Growers urgently needed glyphosate when glyphosate-resistant crops became available because weeds were becoming widely resistant to most commonly used selective herbicides, making weed management too complex and time consuming for large farm operations. Glyphosate made weed management easy and efficient by controlling all emerged weeds at a wide range of application timings. However, the intensive use of glyphosate over wide areas and concomitant decline in the use of other herbicides led eventually to the widespread evolution of weeds resistant to glyphosate. Today, weeds that are resistant to glyphosate and other herbicide types are threatening current crop production practices. Unfortunately, all commercial herbicide modes of action are over 20 years old and have resistant weed problems. The severity of the problem has prompted the renewal of efforts to discover new weed management technologies. One technology will be a new generation of crops with resistance to glyphosate, glufosinate and other existing herbicide modes of action. Other technologies will include new chemical, biological, cultural and mechanical methods for weed management. From the onset of commercialization, growers must now preserve the utility of new technologies by integrating their use with other weed management technologies in diverse and sustainable systems.	1	pesticide
24450247	Residues of organophosphate pesticides used in vegetable cultivation in ambient air, surface water and soil in Bueng Niam Subdistrict, Khon Kaen, Thailand.	Agricultural pesticide utilization is one of the important problems in rural and urban crop-cultivated areas, with the majority of pollutants dispersing via ambient air, water and other natural pathways. This study was therefore conducted in a specially selected village which is known to be a leading vegetable growing area in Khon Kaen Province. The aim of the study was to assess pesticide residues, and measure the seasonal fluctuations in organophosphate concentrations during 2010 in the environment of a risk area. Samples from selected sites were collected in two phases: Phase I was in summer (during March to May) and Phase II was in winter (during October to December). A total of 150 samples were analyzed using gas chromatography with flame photometric detection. The results showed that dicrotophos, chlorpyrifos, profenofos and ethion were found at the highest concentrations in soil and at the lowest concentrations in ambient air (p<0.001). The highest mean concentration of a pesticide in ambient air samples was 0.2580 +/- 0.2686 mg/m(3) for chlorpyrifos in summer and 0.1003 +/- 0.0449 mg/m(3) for chlorpyrifos in winter. In surface water samples, the highest mean concentration of a pesticide was 1.3757 +/- 0.5014 mg/l for dicrotophos in summer and 0.3629 +/- 0.4338 mg/l for ethion in winter. The highest mean concentration of a pesticide in soil samples was 42.2893 +/- 39.0711 mg/kg ethion in summer and 90.0000 +/- 24.1644 mg/kg of ethion in winter.	1	pesticide
24464836	Variable concentration of soil-applied insecticides in potato over time: implications for management of Leptinotarsa decemlineata.	BACKGROUND: Select populations of Colorado potato beetle, Leptinotarsa decemlineata, in Wisconsin have recently become resistant to soil-applied neonicotinoids in potato. Sublethal insecticide concentrations persisting in foliage through the growing season may select for resistance over successive years of use. Over the 2 years of this study, the aim was to document the in-plant insecticide concentrations over time that result from four different types of soil-applied insecticide delivery for thiamethoxam and imidacloprid in potato, and to measure the impact upon L. decemlineata populations following treatments. After plant emergence, insect life stages were counted and plant tissue was assayed weekly for nine consecutive weeks using ELISA. RESULTS: Peak concentration of both imidacloprid and thiamethoxam occurred in the first sample week following plant emergence. The average concentration of both insecticides dissipated sharply over time as the plant canopy expanded 50 days after planting in all delivery treatments. Both insecticides were detected at low levels during the later weeks of the study. Among-plant concentrations of both neonicotinoids were highly variable throughout the season. Populations of L. decemlineata continued to develop and reproduce throughout the period of declining insecticide concentrations. CONCLUSION: Sublethal, chronic exposure to soil-applied systemic insecticides resulting from these delivery methods may accelerate selection for resistant insects in potato.	1	pesticide
24515640	RNA interference of NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase of the rice brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens, increases susceptibility to insecticides.	BACKGROUND: NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase (CPR) is essential for numerous biological reactions catalysed by microsomal cytochrome P450 monooxygenases (P450s). Knockdown of CPR in several insects leads to developmental defects and increased susceptibility to insecticides. However, information about the role of CPR in the brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens, is still unavailable. RESULTS: A full-length cDNA encoding CPR was cloned from N. lugens (NlCPR). The deduced amino acid sequence showed marked features of classical CPRs, such as an N-terminus membrane anchor, conserved domains for flavin mononucleotide, flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate binding, as well as an FAD-binding motif and catalytic residues. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that NlCPR was located in a branch along with bed bug and pea aphid hemipteran insects. NlCPR mRNA was detectable in all tissues and developmental stages of N. lugens, as determined by real-time quantitative PCR. NlCPR transcripts were most abundant in the abdomen in adults, and in first-instar nymphs. Injection of N. lugens with double-strand RNA (dsRNA) against NlCPR significantly reduced the transcription level of the mRNA, and silencing of NlCPR resulted in increased susceptibility in N. lugens to beta-cypermethrin and imidacloprid. CONCLUSION: The results provide first evidence that NlCPR contributes to the susceptibility to beta-cypermethrin and imidacloprid in N. lugens.	1	pesticide
24548539	Evaluation of a rapid device for serological in-clinic diagnosis of canine angiostrongylosis.	BACKGROUND: Angiostrongylus vasorum is a potentially fatal canine nematode. Due to the high variability of clinical signs and the often chronic and subtle course of the infections, the diagnosis is particularly challenging. A rapid in-clinic assay (Angio Detect Test, IDEXX Laboratories, Westbrook, Maine, USA) for the serological detection of circulating antigen and intended for routine in-clinic diagnosis has been evaluated. METHODS: Sensitivity was calculated with sera from 39 naturally infected dogs confirmed by Baermann-Wetzel analysis, while sera of 38 experimentally infected dogs were used for follow-up analyses, of which 10 were treated with imidacloprid/moxidectin. Cross-reactivity was tested with a total of 123 samples from dogs with proven parasitic infections with Toxocara canis (n = 21), Ancylostoma caninum (n = 4), Crenosoma vulpis (n = 18), Oslerus osleri (n = 3), Eucoleus aerophilus, (n = 6), Dirofilaria immitis (n = 28), Dirofilaria repens (n = 20), Acantocheilonema reconditum (n = 10) or Dipetalonema dracunculoides (n = 10) or multiple infections (n = 3). All sera were tested with the Angio Detect Test and with an ELISA for detection of circulating antigen of A. vasorum. RESULTS: The sensitivity of the Angio Detect Test was 84.6% (95% C.I. 69.5 - 94.1%), while specificity was 100% (95% C.I. 97.6 - 100%). The sensitivity of the ELISA (94.9%, 95% C.I. 82.7 - 99.3%) was comparable with previous evaluations. In experimentally infected dogs, earliest positive results with the Angio Detect Test were observed 9 weeks post inoculation and 5 weeks later all sera were Angio Detect Test positive. After anthelmintic treatment, seropositive dogs turned negative again within 3 to 7 weeks after treatment. The evaluation of the colour intensity of the test strips confirmed the delay of approximately 3-4 weeks for antigen detection by the Angio Detect™ Test compared to the ELISA and its correlation with the time after infection. CONCLUSIONS: This study provided evidence of a good sensitivity and a very high specificity of the rapid device Angio Detect Test for detection of circulating A. vasorum antigen in dogs with suspected canine angiostrongylosis, representing a very simple and useful tool to be broadly applied in veterinary practices. The rapid detection of infected dogs is a key point for initiating an indispensable and urgent therapy.	1	pesticide
24561930	Monitoring of selected priority and emerging contaminants in the Guadalquivir River and other related surface waters in the province of Jaén, South East Spain.	The province of Jaén counts with four natural parks, numerous rivers, reservoirs and wetlands; moreover, it is probably the region with higher olive oil production in the world, which makes this zone a proper target to be studied based on the European Water Framework Directive 2000/60/CE. The aim of this survey is to monitor a total number of 373 compounds belonging to different families (pesticides, PAHs, nitrosamines, drugs of abuse, pharmaceuticals and life-style compounds) in surface waters located at different points of the province of Jaén. Among these compounds some priority organic substances (regulated by the EU Directive 2008/105/EC) and pollutants of emerging concern (not regulated yet) can be found. A liquid chromatography electrospray time-of-flight mass spectrometry (LC-TOFMS) method covering 340 compounds was developed and applied, together with a gas chromatography triple-quadrupole mass spectrometry (GC-MS/MS) method which enabled the analysis of 63 organic contaminants (30 of these compounds are analyzed by LC-TOFMS as well). From April 2009 to November 2010 a total of 83 surface water samples were collected (rivers, reservoirs and wetlands). In this period numerous organic contaminants were detected, most of them at the ng L(-1) level. The most frequently priority substances found were chlorpyrifos ethyl, diuron and hexachlorobenzene. Within the other groups, the most frequently detected compounds were: terbuthylazine, oxyfluorfen, desethyl terbuthylazine, diphenylamine (pesticide family); fluorene, phenanthrene, pyrene (PAHs group), codeine, paracetamol (pharmaceuticals compounds) and caffeine, nicotine (life-style compounds). As is could be expected, the total concentration of emerging contaminants is distinctly larger than that of priority pollutants, highlighting the importance of continuing with the study of their presence, fate and effects in aquatic environments. However, concentration levels (at the ng per liter level) are low in general for both kinds of contaminants which minimizes the possible harmful effect on the environment.	1	pesticide
24595133	Longitudinal assessment of chlorpyrifos exposure and self-reported neurological symptoms in adolescent pesticide applicators.	OBJECTIVES: Occupational exposure of organophosphorus pesticides, such as chlorpyrifos (CPF), in adolescents is of particular concern because of the potential vulnerability of the developing neurological system. The objectives of this study were to examine how neurological symptoms reported over the application season vary across time, whether these effects are reversible postapplication and if there are associations between CPF biomarkers and neurological symptoms in an adolescent study population. SETTING: The longitudinal study was conducted in two agricultural districts of Menoufia Governorate, Egypt between April 2010 and January 2011. PARTICIPANTS: Male adolescent participants, including CPF applicators (n=57) and non-applicators (n=38), were recruited. PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: Self-reported data for 25 neurological symptoms were collected at 32 time points over the 8-month period before, during and after the application season. Additionally, urine and blood samples were collected to measure urine trichloro-2-pyridinol (TCPy), a CPF-specific biomarker and blood cholinesterase activity. RESULTS: Applicators and non-applicators report the highest numbers of symptoms during the application season, followed by a reduction in symptoms after the application ended. Applicators reported a greater percentage of neurological symptoms, relative to baseline, than non-applicators after accounting for potential covariates. Among the applicators, cumulative TCPy was positively and significantly associated with the average percentage of symptoms (B=4.56, 95% CI 3.29 to 5.84; p<0.001). Significant associations (p=0.03-0.07) between the change in butyrylcholinesterase activity from the preapplication to the postapplication season and several domains of neurological symptoms were also found, even after adjusting for potential covariates. CONCLUSIONS: These observations demonstrate changes in the reporting of symptoms across the application season, showing an increase in symptom reporting during application and recovery following the end of pesticide application. These findings reinforce the growing concern regarding the neurotoxic health effects of CPF in adolescent applicators in developing countries and the need for developing and implementing intervention programmes.	1	pesticide
24620607	Mild salinization stimulated glyphosate degradation and microbial activities in a riparian soil from Chongming Island, China.	An incubation experiment was conducted to investigate the effects of simulated saltwater treatment with different percentages of artificial seawater on degradation dynamics of herbicide glyphosate and microbial activities in a riparian soil in Chongming Island, China. The results showed that 10% seawater treatment showed significantly enhancing effects on degradation efficiency of glyphosate with the lowest residual concentration among all the treatments. However, glyphosate degradation was markedly decreased in the riparian soil with 20% and 50% seawater treatments. The half-lives for 20% and 50% seawater treatments were prolonged by 12.1 and 39.0%, respectively, as compared to control. Microbial investigation indicated that 10% seawater treatment significantly stimulated microbial activities in the glyphosate-spiked riparian soil throughout the incubation period. At 42 day of incubation experiment, flourescein diacetate (FDA) hydrolysis rate, microbial adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and basal soil respiration (BSR) in the glyphosate-spiked riparian soil with 10% seawater were 59.2, 42.5 and 31.8% higher than those with no saltwater treatment, respectively. In contrast, saltwater treatment with 50% seawater significantly inhibited microbial activities. Especially, FDA hydrolysis rate, microbial ATP and BSR were decreased by 66.4, 58.6 and 66.8%, respectively, as compared to control. The results indicate that levels of simulated saltwater can exert variable effects on herbicide degradation dynamics and microbial parameters in the riparian soil.	1	pesticide
24620941	Rapid detection of acetamiprid in foods using surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS).	Acetamiprid is a neonicotinoid pesticide that is commonly used in modern farming. Acetamiprid residue in food commodities can be a potential harm to human and has been implicated in the honey bee hive die off crisis. In this study, we developed rapid, simple, and sensitive methods to detect acetamiprid in apple juice and on apple surfaces using surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS). No pretreatment of apple juice sample was performed. A simple surface swab method was used to recover acetamiprid from the apple surface. Samples were incubated with silver dendrites for several minutes and SERS spectra were taken directly from the silver surface. Detection of a set of 5 apple juice samples can be done within 10 min. The swab-SERS method took 15 min for a set of 5 samples. Resulting spectral data were analyzed using principal component analysis. The highest acetamiprid peak at 634 cm(-1) was used to detect and quantify the amount of acetamiprid spiked in 1:1 water-methanol solvent, apple juice, and on apple surface. The SERS method was able to successfully detect acetamiprid at 0.5 μg/mL (0.5 ppm) in solvent, 3 μg/mL (3 ppm) in apple juice, and 0.125 μg/cm(2) on apple surfaces. The SERS methods provide simple, rapid, and sensitive ways to detect acetamiprid in beverages and on the surfaces of thick skinned fruits and vegetables. 	1	pesticide
24649940	β-cypermethrin-induced acute neurotoxicity in the cerebral cortex of mice.	A Type II pyrethroid pesticide β-cypermethrin is widely used in agriculture and domestic applications for pest control. However, the effect of β-cypermethrin on the glutamate neurotransmitter has not been well-documented. In the current study, mice were treated with 20, 40, or 80 mg/kg β-cypermethrin by a single oral gavage, with corn oil as a vehicle control. Four hours after treatment, we investigated glutamate levels and glutamate-metabolizing enzyme (phosphate-activated glutaminase, PAG; glutamine synthetase, GS) activities in the cerebral cortex of mice, using a HPLC system with ultraviolet detectors and a colorimetric assay. Glutamate uptake levels in the synaptosomes of cerebral cortex and mRNA expression levels of PAG, GS, and glutamate transporter-1 (GLT-1) in the cerebral cortex were detected by a radioactive labeling method and qRT-PCR, respectively. Toxic symptoms were observed in mice treated with 40 or 80 mg/kg β-cypermethrin. Compared with the control, significant decreases in glutamate level and GS activity, and an obvious increase in synaptosomal glutamate uptake, were found in the cerebral cortex of mice treated with 80 mg/kg β-cypermethrin. No significant changes were found among groups in PAG activity or PAG, GS, and GLT-1 mRNA expression levels. These results suggest that β-cypermethrin treatment may reduce the glutamate level in the mouse cerebral cortex, which is associated with decreased GS activity and increased synaptosomal glutamate uptake. Our findings provide a partial explanation for the neurotoxic effects of synthetic β-cypermethrin insecticides.	1	pesticide
24659402	Protective effect of Syzygium cumini against pesticide-induced cardiotoxicity.	Pesticide-induced toxicity is a serious issue which has resulted in plethora of diseases all over the world. The organophosphate pesticide malathion has caused many incidents of poisoning such as cardiac manifestations. The present study was designed to evaluate the effect of Syzygium cumini on malathion-induced cardiotoxicity. Dose optimization of malathion and polyphenols such as curcumin, (−)-epicatechin, gallic acid, butylated hydroxyl toluene, etc. was done by MTT cell proliferation assay. Nuclear deformities, ROS production, and integrity of extra cellular matrix components were analyzed by different techniques. S. cumini methanolic pulp extract (MPE), a naturally derived gallic acid-enriched antioxidant was taken to study its effect on malathion-induced toxicity. Nuclear deformities, ROS production, and integrity of extra cellular matrix components were also analyzed. Twenty micrograms per milliliter LD50 dose of malathion was found to cause stress-mediated responses in H9C2 cell line. Among all the polyphenols, gallic acid showed the most significant protection against stress. Gallic acid-enriched methanolic S. cumini pulp extract (MPE) showed 59.76 % ± 0.05, 81.61 % ± 1.37, 73.33 % ± 1.33, 77.19 % ± 2.38 and 64.19 % ± 1.43 maximum inhibition for DPPH, ABTS, NO, H2O2 and superoxide ion, respectively, as compared to ethanolic pulp extract and aqueous pulp extract. Our study suggests that S. cumini MPE has the ability to protect against the malathion-mediated oxidative stress in cardiac myocytes.	1	pesticide
24665717	Field and laboratory efficacy of three insecticides for population management of the Asian cockroach (Dictyoptera: Blattellidae).	Toxicity, repellency, and performance of three insecticides, beta-cyfluthrin EC, fipronil granules, and an essential oil EC formulation, were evaluated against the Asian cockroach, Blattella asahinai Mizukubo, in field and laboratory experiments. The beta-cyfluthrin EC and fipronil granules were significantly more toxic than the essential oil EC formulation under continuous exposure conditions, with LT50 values of 0.014, 0.45, and 11.45 d, respectively. The beta-cyfluthrin EC and fipronil granules were also significantly more toxic than the essential oil EC formulation in an Ebeling choice box test with LT50 values of 0.64, 1.98, and 59.64 d, respectively. Field applications of insecticides at label rates to Asian cockroach populations in Dothan, AL, showed that beta-cyfluthrin EC and fipronil granules reduced populations by 100% at 7 and 30 d after treatment. The essential oil EC formulation initially reduced populations by 68% at 7 d, but control diminished to 2% by 30 d. Results of the field applications and laboratory experiments demonstrate that the beta-cyfluthrin EC and fipronil granules provide excellent control of Asian cockroach populations.	1	pesticide
24668906	Cross-resistance, the stability of acetamiprid resistance and its effect on the biological parameters of cotton mealybug, Phenacoccus solenopsis (Homoptera: Pseudococcidae), in Pakistan.	BACKGROUND: Acetamiprid is a neonicotinoid insecticide that is effective against both soil and plant insects, including insects of the orders Lepidoptera, Coleoptera, Homoptera and Thysanoptera. In order to estimate the effects associated with insecticide exposure and devise better pest management tactics, a field population of Phenacoccus solenopsis was exposed to acetamiprid in the laboratory. Subsequently, cross-resistance and the effects of acetamiprid on the biological parameters of P. solenopsis were investigated. RESULTS: Following five rounds of selection with acetamiprid, P. solenopsis developed a 315-fold greater resistance to this chemical compared with an unexposed control population. The selected population also demonstrated very high to moderate cross-resistance to other tested insecticides. Furthermore, acetamiprid resistance remained unstable when the acetamiprid-selected population was not exposed for a further five generations. The acetamiprid-selected population had a relative fitness of 0.22, with significantly lower survival rate, pupal weight, fecundity, percentage hatching, net reproductive rate, intrinsic rate of natural increase, biotic potential and mean relative growth rate, with prolonged male and female nymphal duration, developmental time from egg to female adult and male and female longevity compared with the control population. CONCLUSION: P. solenopsis biological parameters are greatly affected by acetamiprid, and it is of significant cost for the insects to counter these effects. This study will be a valuable source of information for further understanding of acetamiprid resistance and for assisting the development of resistance management programmes.	1	pesticide
24682062	TDDFT study of UV-vis spectra of permethrin, cypermethrin and their beta-cyclodextrin inclusion complexes: a comparison of dispersion correction DFT (DFT-D3) and DFT.	A comparative study of DFT and DFT-D3 has been carried out on the UV-vis absorption of permethrin, cypermethrin and their β-cyclodextrin inclusion complexes. The TDDFT method with PCM (or COSMO) model was adopted and B3LYP, BLYP and BLYP-D3 functionals were selected. Comparing the simulated spectra with experimental one, we can notice that pure BLYP functional can better reproduce the UV-vis spectra than hybrid B3LYP, but empirical dispersion corrections BLYP-D3 has better performance than BLYP. BLYP-D3 calculations reveal that the main absorption bands of permethrin and cypermethrin arise from the π→π(*) transition, after encapsulated by β-CD to form inclusion complexes, the host-guest intermolecular charge transfer (ICT) makes the main absorption bands to be changed significantly in wavelength and intensity. 	1	pesticide
24685163	Determination of organothiophosphorus pesticides in water by liquid chromatography and post-column chemiluminescence with cerium(IV).	A new, fast, selective and sensitive method has been developed for the simultaneous determination of nine organothiophosphorus (OTP) pesticides, namely omethoate, dimethoate, disulfoton-sulfoxide, methidathion, phosmet, malathion, diazinon, pirimiphos-methyl and chlorpyrifos. The pesticides were separated on a Kinetex C18 column by gradient elution with acetonitrile:water. A post-column basic hydrolysis of the pesticides and later a chemiluminescence (CL) reaction with cerium (IV) in acid medium was carried out. Hexadecylpyridinium chloride highly enhanced the CL emission. Under optimized conditions, linearity, precision, limits of detection and quantification, and accuracy were determined. Both selectivity and sensitivity were compared with those obtained with UV detection. In combination with SPE, limits of detection in the range 15-80ng/L and 5-30ng/L were obtained when 250mL and 1000mL of solution were treated, respectively. When applied to 250mL of sample the inter-day precision of the method was between 3.5% and 7.3% and the intra-day precision between 2.9% and 6.0%. The method was applied to determine OTP pesticides in spiked water samples from different origins: irrigation, river, sea, ground, spring, mineral and tap waters, being the percentage of recovery of added amounts near 100% form most of the pesticides. 	1	pesticide
24704807	Inter-compartmental transport of organophosphate and pyrethroid pesticides in South China: implications for a regional risk assessment.	The dynamic flux of an organophosphate and four pyrethroid pesticides was determined in an air-(soil)-water-sediment system based on monitoring data from Guangzhou, China. The total air-water flux, including air-water gaseous exchange and atmospheric deposition, showed deposition from air to water for chlorpyrifos, bifenthrin and cypermethrin, but volatilization for lambda-cyhalothrin and permethrin. The transport of the pesticides from overlying water to sediment suggested that sediment acted as a sink for the pesticides. Additionally, distinct annual atmospheric depositional fluxes between legacy and current-use pesticides suggested the role of consumer usage in their transport throughout the system. Finally, pesticide toxicity was estimated from annual air-water-sediment flux within an urban stream in Guangzhou. A dynamic flux-based risk assessment indicated that inter-compartmental transport of chlorpyrifos decreased its atmospheric exposure, but had little influence on its aquatic toxicity. Instead, water-to-sediment transport of pyrethroids increased their sediment toxicity, which was supported by previously reported toxicity data. 	1	pesticide
24711991	Determination of carbamate and organophosphorus pesticides in vegetable samples and the efficiency of gamma-radiation in their removal.	In the present study, the residual pesticide levels were determined in eggplants (Solanum melongena) (n = 16), purchased from four different markets in Dhaka, Bangladesh. The carbamate and organophosphorus pesticide residual levels were determined by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and the efficiency of gamma radiation on pesticide removal in three different types of vegetables was also studied. Many (50%) of the samples contained pesticides, and three samples had residual levels above the maximum residue levels determined by the World Health Organisation. Three carbamates (carbaryl, carbofuran, and pirimicarb) and six organophosphates (phenthoate, diazinon, parathion, dimethoate, phosphamidon, and pirimiphos-methyl) were detected in eggplant samples; the highest carbofuran level detected was 1.86 mg/kg, while phenthoate was detected at 0.311 mg/kg. Gamma radiation decreased pesticide levels proportionately with increasing radiation doses. Diazinon, chlorpyrifos, and phosphamidon were reduced by 40-48%, 35-43%, and 30-45%, respectively, when a radiation strength of 0.5 kGy was utilized. However, when the radiation dose was increased to 1.0 kGy, the levels of the pesticides were reduced to 85-90%, 80-91%, and 90-95%, respectively. In summary, our study revealed that pesticide residues are present at high amounts in vegetable samples and that gamma radiation at 1.0 kGy can remove 80-95% of some pesticides.	1	pesticide
24716788	The power of poison: pesticide poisoning of Africa's wildlife.	Poisons have long been used to kill wildlife throughout the world. An evolution has occurred from the use of plant- and animal-based toxins to synthetic pesticides to kill wildlife, a method that is silent, cheap, easy, and effective. The use of pesticides to poison wildlife began in southern Africa, and predator populations were widely targeted and eliminated. A steep increase has recently been observed in the intensity of wildlife poisonings, with corresponding population declines. However, the majority of poisonings go unreported. Under national laws, it is illegal to hunt wildlife using poisons in 83% of African countries. Pesticide regulations are inadequate, and enforcement of existing legislation is poor. Few countries have forensic field protocols, and most lack storage and testing facilities. Methods used to poison wildlife include baiting carcasses, soaking grains in pesticide solution, mixing pesticides to form salt licks, and tainting waterholes. Carbofuran is the most widely abused pesticide in Africa. Common reasons for poisoning are control of damage-causing animals, harvesting fish and bushmeat, harvesting animals for traditional medicine, poaching for wildlife products, and killing wildlife sentinels (e.g., vultures because their aerial circling alerts authorities to poachers' activities). Populations of scavengers, particularly vultures, have been decimated by poisoning. Recommendations include banning pesticides, improving pesticide regulations and controlling distribution, better enforcement and stiffer penalties for offenders, increasing international support and awareness, and developing regional pesticide centers. 	1	pesticide
24723134	Exposures of aquatic organisms to the organophosphorus insecticide, chlorpyrifos resulting from use in the United States.	Concentrations of CPY in surface waters are an integral determinant of risk to aquatic organisms. CPY has been measured in surface waters of the U.S. in several environmental monitoring programs and these data were evaluated to characterize concentrations, in relation to major areas of use and changes to the label since 2001, particularly the removal of domestic uses. Frequencies of detection and 95th centile concentrations of CPY decreased more than fivefold between 1992 and 2010. Detections in 1992-2001 ranged from 10.2 to 53%, while 2002-2010 detections ranged from 7 to 11%. The 95th centile concentrations ranged from 0.007 to 0.056 j.lg L -I in 1992-2001 and 0.006-0.008 j.lg L -I in 2002-2010.The greatest frequency of detections occurred in samples from undeveloped and agricultural land-use classes. Samples from urban and mixed land-use classes had the smallest frequency of detections and 95th centile concentrations, consistent with the cessation of most homeowner uses in 2001. The active metabolite of CPY, CPYO, was not detected frequently or in large concentrations. In 10,375 analyses from several sampling programs conducted between 1999 and 2012, only 25 detections (0.24% of samples) of CPYO were reported and estimated concentrations were less than the LOQ.Although the monitoring data on CPY provide relevant insight in quantifying the range of concentrations in surface waters, few monitoring programs have sampled at a frequency sufficient to quantify the time-series pattern of exposure. Therefore,numerical simulations were used to characterize concentrations of CPY in water and sediment for three representative high exposure environments in the U.S. Thefate of CPY in the environment is dependent on a number of dissipation and degradation processes. In terms of surface waters, fate in soils is a major driver of the potential for runoff into surface waters and results from a number of dissipation studies in the laboratory were characterized. Aerobic degradation of CPY exhibits hi-phasic behavior in some soils; initial rates of degradation are greater than overal rates by factors of up to threefold. Along with fate in water, these data were considered in selecting parameters for the modeling concentrations in surface waters. An assessment of vulnerability to runoff was conducted to characterize the potential for CPY to be transported beyond a treated field in runoff water and eroded sediment across the conterminous U.S. A sensitivity analysis was performed on use practices of CPY to determine conditions that resulted in the highest potential runoff of CPY to aquatic systems to narrow the application practices and geographical areas of the country for selecting watersheds for detailed modeling. The selected focus-watersheds were Dry Creek in Georgia (production of pecans), Cedar Creekin Michigan (cherries), and Orestimba Creek in California (intensive agricultural uses). These watersheds provided realistic but reasonable worst-case predictions of concentrations of CPY in water and sediment.Estimated concentrations of CPY in water for the three watersheds were in general agreement with ambient monitoring data from 2002 to 20 I 0 in the datasets from US Geological Survey (USGS), California Department of Pesticide Regulation(CDPR), and Washington State Department of Ecology (WDOE). Maximum daily concentrations predicted for the watershed in California, Georgia, and Michigan were 3.2, 0.04 I, and 0.073 Jlg L -I, respectively, with the 28-d aerobic soil metabolism half-life and 4.5, 0.042, and 0. I 22 Jlg L - 1, respectively, with the 96-d soil halflife.These estimated values compared favorably with maximum concentrations measured in surface water, which ranged from 0.33 to 3.96 Jlg L -1• For sediments,the maximum daily concentrations predicted for the watersheds in California,Georgia, and Michigan were I 1.2, 0.077, and 0.058 Jlg kg-1, respectively, with the 28-d half-life and 22.8, 0.080, and 0.087 Jlg kg-1, respectively, with the 96-d soil half-life. CYP was detected in 12 samples (I 0%) out of 123 sample analyses that existed in the USGS, CDPR, and WDOE databases. The concentrations reported in these detections were from <2.0, up to 19 Jlg kg- 1, with the exception of one value reported at 58.6 Jlg kg- 1• Again, the modeled values compared favorably with these measured values. Duration and recovery intervals between toxicity threshold concentrations of 0.1 and 1.0 Jlg L - 1 were also computed. Based on modeling with the half-life of 28 d, no exceedance events were identified in the focus watersheds in Georgia or Michigan. Using the half-life of 96 d, only three events of 1-d duration only were identified in the Michigan focus-watershed. Frequency of exceedancc was greater in the California focus watershed, though the median duration was only I -d.	1	pesticide
24727072	Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy and gestational diabetes mellitus among French Caribbean women chronically exposed to chlordecone.	Few studies have explored the consequences of environmental exposure to organochlorine pesticides for gestational hypertension (GH), preeclampsia (PE) and gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM). Chlordecone is a persistent organochlorine pesticide that was used intensively, and almost exclusively, in the French West Indies until 1993. We investigated the impact of prenatal exposure to chlordecone on the occurrence of GDM, GH and PE by studying 779 pregnant women enrolled in a prospective mother-child cohort (Timoun Study) in Guadeloupe between 2004 and 2007. Chlordecone exposure was determined by assaying maternal plasma and information about pregnancy complications was obtained from midwives, pediatricians and hospital medical records after delivery. The risks of GH (n=65), PE (n=31) and GDM (n=71) were estimated by multiple logistic regression including potential confounders. Levels of chlordecone plasma concentration in the third (OR=0.2; 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.1, 0.5) and fourth quartiles (OR=0.3; 95% CI: 0.2, 0.7) were associated with a statistically significant decrease in the risk of GH. A log10 increase in chlordecone concentration was significantly associated with lower risk of GH (OR=0.4; 95% CI: 0.2, 0.6). No significant associations were observed between the chlordecone exposure and the risk of PE or GDM. This study suggests an inverse association between chlordecone exposure during pregnancy and GH. Further studies are required to determine the underlying mechanism, or the potential unknown confounding factors, resulting in this association. 	1	pesticide
24738222	[Pyrethroid resistance mechanisms in the body lice Pediculus humanus humanus L.: detoxification enzyme systems].	Synergists (piperonyl butoxide, MGK-264 (N-octyl bicycloheptene dicarboximide), DEF (S, S, S, tributyl phosphorotrithioate), and diethylmaleate) were used to investigate the metabolic resistance of body lice to permethrin. Instances of the synergistic activity ofpermethrin when combined with enzyme system inhibitors have been identified. The synergic ratios were 3.3 to 52.0 for monooxygenase inhibitors; 5.2 to 7.4 for esterases, and about 4 for glutathione-S-transferases. Since the use of the synergists did not lead to full inhibition of resistance, it was concluded that the lice had also a kdr-like type of resistance.	1	pesticide
24754396	Enantiomer-selective and quantitative trace analysis of selected persistent organic pollutants (POP) in traditional food from western Greenland.	Enantiomeric fractions (EF) are today considered a powerful tool to elucidate selective uptake processes of chiral contaminants in biota. In this study, concentration levels and EF were determined by gas chromatograph-mass spectrometer (GC/MS) for α-hexachlorocyclohexane (α-HCH) and trans-, cis-, and oxychlordane in selected Greenlandic traditional food items, collected at the local market in Nuuk in 2010. The food items selected were raw and smoked fish (salmon and halibut, n = 6), whale meat (n = 8), seal meat (n = 2) and narwhal mattak (skin and blubber, n = 6). The EF were nonracemic (≠0.5) for all samples except for α-HCH in narwhal, trans-chlordane in whale and smoked salmon, and cis- and oxychlordane in seal. The EF for α-HCH were significant for all fish samples, but not for mammalian samples. Data indicate that different uptake and/or transformation mechanisms may be responsible for nonracemic distributions of chiral pesticides in mammals and fish species analyzed. There were no general enantiomer-selective transformation/accumulation trends found for chlordanes. Data indicate that enantiomer-specific properties are an important prerequisite for interaction of chiral contaminant with internal metabolic processes. However, marked differences within these groups were identified. The EF in ringed seals were racemic for most of the analyzed pesticides (i.e., chlordanes). However, narwhal were characterized by nonracemic EF for all chiral pesticides analyzed. Median levels of α-HCH ranged from 2 to 24 ng/g lw and from 15.1 to 626.6 ng/g lw for trans-nonachlor, with lowest levels observed in smoked salmon and highest levels in narwhal mattak. This study confirmed that concentration levels of analyzed pesticides in the investigated food items were below the tolerable daily intake (TDI) threshold. 	1	pesticide
24757962	Ecotoxicological evaluation of poly(epsilon-caprolactone) nanocapsules containing triazine herbicides.	The triazine class of herbicides includes the compounds ametryn, atrazine, and simazine, which are used to control weeds in plantations of crops such as maize, sorghum, and sugar cane. Despite their acceptance in agriculture, these herbicides can be dangerous to the environment, depending on their toxicity, the degree of contamination, and the duration of exposure. Controlled release systems are increasingly used to mitigate problems of toxicity and minimize environmental impacts, and can also increase herbicide efficiency. The objective of this work was to prepare poly(epsilon-caprolactone) nanocapsules containing ametryn and atrazine, and evaluate their toxicity to aquatic organisms as well as in cytogenetic tests employing human lymphocyte cultures. The PCL nanocapsules were prepared according to the interfacial deposition of pre-formed polymer method. Ecotoxicological assays were performed with the alga Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata and the microcrustacean Daphnia similis. The cytogenetic tests consisted of observing mitotic index alterations after exposing lymphocyte cell cultures to different formulations. Encapsulation of the herbicides in the nanocapsules resulted in lower toxicity to the alga and higher toxicity to the microcrustacean, compared to the herbicides alone. The cytogenetic tests showed that formulations of nanocapsules containing the herbicides were less toxic than the herbicides alone. The findings indicate the potential of the nanocapsule formulations in agricultural applications, where they could help to reduce the quantities of herbicides used as well as impacts on the environment and human health.	1	pesticide
24759049	Enzymes mediating resistance to lambda-cyhalothrin in Eriopis connexa (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae).	Resistance to widely used insecticide, lambda-cyhalothrin, was recently reported in the predatory lady beetle Eriopis connexa (Germar) (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae). However, to understand whether metabolic mechanisms underlie such resistance, synergism bioassays and in vitro studies were carried out by using inhibitors and model substrates for enzymatic assays, respectively. The LD50s estimated for susceptible and resistant populations ηg of lambda-cyhalothrin/insect, and thus, a 22-fold difference in resistance ratio. Synergism ratios for the susceptible population with piperonyl butoxide (PBO), diethyl maleate (DEM), triphenyl phosphate (TPP), and S,S,S-tributylphosphorotrithioate (DEF) were respectively 33.8-, 0.24-, 0.35-, and 4.25-fold, while for the resistant population, they were 1463.0-, 0.79-, 0.85-, and 282.6-fold, respectively. The synergized resistance ratios were 0.50-, 2.00-, 6.75-, and 8.77-fold with PBO, DEF, DEM, and TPP, respectively, while resistance was virtually suppressed with DEF. The esterase exhibited 4.16-, 4.03-, and 5.38-fold greater activity towards formation of α-naphthol, β-naphthol, and 4-nitrophenol in the resistant population of E. connexa than in the susceptible population. The activity of esterase depended on concentrations of DEF applied, either using α-naphthol or β-naphthol, which completely inhibited the activity at 636 ηM. The PBO inhibited the β-naphthol formation in approximately 50%, suggesting it as inhibitor of esterases. The activities of glutathione-S-transferase were similar and corresponded to 0.36-0.47 ηmol(-1) min(-1)μg of protein, for S and R populations, respectively. Similarly, the activities of cytochrome P450-dependent microsomal monooxygenases were 0.04 and 0.05 ηmol(-1) min(-1)μg of protein. The native gel indicated that the formation of β-naphthol was completely inhibited by methyl-paraoxon, but only partially inhibited by eserine, TPP, and PBO. Although other studies with DEF and PBO have demonstrated strong inhibition of type B carboxylesterase associated with insecticide resistance, the results reported here do not rule out metabolism by cytochrome P450-dependent microsomal monooxygenases as a factor conferring E. connexa resistance to lambda-cyhalothrin and confirmed that PBO may also act by inhibiting esterases of insects.	1	pesticide
24764154	Identification of the first glyphosate-resistant wild radish (Raphanus raphanistrum L.) populations.	BACKGROUND: In Australia, glyphosate has been used routinely to control wild radish (Raphanus raphanistrum L.) for the past 40 years. This study focuses on two field-evolved glyphosate-resistant populations of wild radish collected from the grainbelt of Western Australia. RESULTS: Two wild radish biotypes were confirmed to be glyphosate resistant by comparing R/S of two suspected populations. Based on R/S from dose-response curves, the R1 and R2 populations were 2.3 and 3.2 times more resistant to glyphosate respectively. Dose response on glyphosate-selected progeny (>1080 g ha(-1)) demonstrated that the glyphosate resistance mechanism was heritable. When compared with the pooled mortality results of three known susceptible populations (S1, S2 and S3), the R1 and R2 subpopulations were 3.4-fold and 4.5-fold more resistant at the LD50 level respectively. Both populations were found to have multiple resistance to the phytoene desaturase inhibitor; diflufenican, the synthetic auxin; 2,4-D and the ALS inhibitors; chlorsulfuron, sulfometuron-methyl, imazethapyr and metosulam. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first report confirming glyphosate resistance evolution in wild radish and serves to re-emphasise the importance of diverse weed control strategies. Proactive and integrated measures for resistance management need to be developed to diversify control measures away from glyphosate and advance the use of non-herbicidal techniques.	1	pesticide
24766444	Correlation between pesticide resistance and enzyme activity in the diamondback moth, Plutella xylostella.	The diamondback moth, Plutella xylostella (L.) (Lepidoptera: Plutellidae), is one of the most important pests that has developed high pesticide resistance. The resistances of five Chinese populations of this moth, four resistant strains (from Beijing, Henan, Fujian, and Guangdong) and one susceptible strain, to five pesticides were determined, and the activities of carboxylesterase, glutathione S-transferase, and acetylcholine esterase were tested in all five populations. The correlations between pesticide resistance and enzyme activity were analyzed. The results showed that the resistance status to the five pesticides was different among the five populations. The resistance ratios of the Beijing and Henan populations to spinosad were 5.84 and 8.22, respectively, and those to beta-cypermethrin were 4.91 and 4.98, respectively. These ratios were higher than those for the Fujian and Guangdong populations. The Fujian population was more sensitive to abamectin and chlorpyrifos than the susceptible population (the resistance ratios were 0.14 and 0.91, respectively); in fact, the median lethal concentration for P. xylostella was significantly higher for chlorpyrifos than that for any of the other four pesticides. The carboxylesterase activity in P. xylostella showed positive correlations with the resistance to spinosad, beta-cypermethrin, chlorpyrifos, and abamectin, but no correlation was observed between the carboxylesterase activity and resistance to emamectin benzoate, between glutathione S-transferase activity and resistance to any of the five pesticides tested, or between acetylcholine esterase activity and any of the pesticides except for emamectin benzoate.	1	pesticide
24772547	Sustainable management tactics for control of Phyllotreta cruciferae (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) on canola in Montana.	The crucifer flea beetle, Phyllotreta cruciferae (Goeze) (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae), has recently emerged as a serious pest of canola (Brassica napus L.) in Montana. The adult beetles feed on canola leaves, causing many small holes that stunt growth and reduce yield. In 2013, damage to canola seedlings was high (approximately 80%) in many parts of Montana, evidence that when flea beetles emerge in large numbers, they can quickly destroy a young canola crop. In the current study, the effectiveness of several biopesticides was evaluated and compared with two insecticides (deltamethrin and bifenthrin) commonly used as foliar sprays as well as seed treatment with an imidacloprid insecticide for the control of P. cruciferae under field conditions in 2013. The biopesticides used included an entomopathogenic nematode (Steinernema carpocapsae), two entomopathogenic fungi (Beauveria bassiana and Metarhizium brunneum), neem, and petroleum spray oils. The control agents were delivered in combination or alone in a single or repeated applications at different times. The plant-derived compound neem (azadirachtin), petroleum spray oil, and fatty acids (M-Pede) only showed moderate effect, although they significantly reduced leaf injuries caused by P. cruciferae and resulted in higher canola yield than the untreated control. Combined use of B. bassiana and M. brunneum in two repeated applications and bifenthrin in five applications were most effective in reducing feeding injuries and improving yield levels at both trial locations. This indicates that entomopathogenic fungi are effective against P. cruciferae, and may serve as alternatives to conventional insecticides or seed treatments in managing this pest.	1	pesticide
24851577	Assessment of occupational exposure to malathion and bifenthrin in mosquito control sprayers through dermal contact.	OBJECTIVE: To assess occupational exposure of malathion and bifenthrin concentrations by dermal contact and urinary 3-(2-chloro-3, 3, 3-trifluoro-1-propenyl)-2, 2-dimethyl-cyclopropanecarboxylic (TFP) acid, health symptoms developed and the relationship between bifenthrin concentrations and TFP acid in urine of the mosquito control sprayers. MATERIAL AND METHOD: The aerosols of these two pesticides were collected using 100 cm2 cotton patches attached on the skin of upper legs of 54 volunteer of mosquito control sprayers. Their urine samples were also collected before and after application. RESULTS: These subjects exposed to average malathion and bifenthrin concentrations of 0.18 and 0.32 microg/cm2, respectively After application, the average concentration of urinary TFP acid in the sprayers was 39.22 +/- 0.77 mg/g creatinine ranging from 0.58 to 261.19 mg/g creatinine. A significant difference was found between urinary TFP acid levels before and after application (p < 0.001) but the bifenthrin concentrations through dermal contact and urinary TFP acid levels were not significantly correlated (p > 0.05). CONCLUSION: The mosquito control sprayers had dermal contact with smoke of malathion and bifenthrin and some sprayers developed health symptoms after exposure. They should use protective clothing made ofplastic, nylon or polyester to protect sprayers from skin contact.	1	pesticide
24863411	Insecticide resistance and cross-resistance development in Colorado potato beetle Leptinotarsa decemlineata Say (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) populations in Canada 2008-2011.	BACKGROUND: A survey of insecticide resistance in over 150 Canadian populations of Colorado potato beetle was completed between 2008 and 2011. Three neonicotinoid and two anthranilic diamide insecticides were tested at a discriminating concentration (DC) with second-instar larvae in a leaf-disc bioassay. RESULTS: The mean mortality for the imidacloprid (Admire) DC was 46-67% between 2008 and 2011 respectively. Over the 4 years, 10-46% and 26-40% of the populations were classified as resistant or showed reduced susceptibility to imidacloprid. The mean mortality for thiamethoxam (Actara) and clothianidin (Poncho/Titan) ranged from 56-76% in 2008 to 81-84% in 2010 for each insecticide respectively, indicating continuous susceptibility to clothianidin but reduced susceptibility to thiamethoxam. In 2008 and 2009, susceptibility to chlorantraniliprole (Coragen) was observed in 85% of populations. Similarly, cyantraniliprole (Cyazypyr) affected 93% of the 2009 and 74% of the 2010 populations. There was a significant (P < 0.05) and high positive correlation (R = 0.4-0.84) between the three neonicotinoids, indicating the potential for cross-resistance. CONCLUSIONS: The trend observed in decreasing susceptibility for thiamethoxam and clothianidin will continue unless resistance management practices are followed.	1	pesticide
24863738	Use of in vitro data in developing a physiologically based pharmacokinetic model: Carbaryl as a case study.	In vitro-derived information has been increasingly used to support and improve human health risk assessment for exposure to chemicals. Physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modeling is a key component in the movement toward in vitro-based risk assessment, providing a tool to integrate diverse experimental data and mechanistic information to relate in vitro effective concentrations to equivalent human exposures. One of the challenges, however, in the use of PBPK models for this purpose has been the need for extensive chemical-specific parameters. With the remarkable advances in in vitro methodologies in recent years, in vitro-derived parameters can now be easily incorporated into PBPK models. In this study we demonstrate an in vitro data based parameterization approach to develop a physiologically based pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (PBPK/PD) model, using carbaryl as a case study. In vitro experiments were performed to provide the chemical-specific pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) parameters for carbaryl in the PBPK model for this compound. Metabolic clearance and cholinesterase (ChE) interaction parameters for carbaryl were measured in rat and human tissues. These in vitro PK and PD data were extrapolated to parameters in the whole body PBPK model using biologically appropriate scaling. The PBPK model was then used to predict the kinetics and ChE inhibition dynamics of carbaryl in vivo. This case study with carbaryl provides a reasonably successful example of utilizing the in vitro to in vivo extrapolation (IVIVE) approach for PBPK model development. This approach can be applied to other carbamates with an anticholinesterase mode of action as well as to environmental chemicals in general with further refinement of the current shortcomings in the approach. It will contribute to minimizing the need for in vivo human data for PBPK model parameterization and evaluation in human risk assessments. 	1	pesticide
24880905	In vitro evaluations of topical agents to treat Acanthamoeba keratitis.	PURPOSE: To evaluate the effectiveness of topical agents for the treatment of Acanthamoeba keratitis (AK). DESIGN: Laboratory research. PARTICIPANTS: Fifty-six Acanthamoeba isolates from 56 patients with clinically proven AK were studied. METHODS: The effectiveness of 7 agents against Acanthamoeba cysts was determined in vitro. The agents were 1.0% povidone-iodine, 0.05% benzalkonium chloride (BZC), 0.02% chlorhexidine gluconate (CHG), 0.1% propamidine isethionate, 0.02% polyhexamethylene biguanide (PHMB), 5.0% natamycin, and 1.0% voriconazole (VRCZ). These concentrations are those recommended for patients. In addition, 10-fold dilutions of each of the agents were tested. After exposing the cysts to each agent at 35°C for 1 hour or 24 hours, the agents were removed by centrifugal washing. The exposed cysts were observed by optical microscopy for 7 days. In addition, the fine structures of the exposed isolates were examined by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The genotype of the isolates was determined by 18S rDNA fragment sequencing. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The in vitro susceptibility was determined by complete growth inhibition, and the morphologic appearance was determined by TEM. The genotypes of the 56 isolates were determined by 18S rDNA fragment sequencing. RESULTS: The Acanthamoeba cysts were most susceptible to natamycin, followed by povidone-iodine, BZC, PHMB, propamidine, and CHG. None of the strains was susceptible to VRCZ. The susceptibilities to PHMB and CHG may be time dependent and to propamidine may be concentration dependent. Transmission electron microscopy showed changes in the inner structure of the cysts exposed to natamycin and povidone-iodine. The Acanthamoeba genotype was T4 in 52 isolates, and cysts with the same genotype had different agent susceptibilities. CONCLUSIONS: Natamycin and povidone-iodine had excellent cysti-static (or cystcidal) effects, and PHMB and propamidine did not. There was no correlation between agent effectiveness and Acanthamoeba genotype. Therefore, susceptibility tests of isolates are needed to choose the most appropriate agent, and our results can be a guideline for choosing the most appropriate agent for immediate empirical treatment of AK.	1	pesticide
24894080	Oviposition deterrent and ovicidal activities of seven herbal essential oils against female adults of housefly, Musca domestica L.	The oviposition deterrent and ovicidal of seven herbal essential oils derived from Citrus sinensis, Cymbopogon citratus, Eucalyptus glubulus, Illicium verum, Lavandula angustifolia, Mentha piperita, and Zingiber cussumunar were assessed against the gravid female of housefly, Musca domestica L., under laboratory conditions and compared with commercial insecticide (10% w/v cypermethrin). They were assayed at three concentrations (1.0, 5.0, and 10.0%) where plastic cups containing 1 ml of desired oil concentration and cotton pad soaked with 10 ml of milk solution (10% w/v) were used as oviposition substrate. The 0.1 ml of deferent concentrations was dropped on ten housefly eggs, which were used for ovicidal activity. The number of eggs laid and the hatched larvae in each cup was recorded to evaluate the oviposition deterrent and ovicidal activities of the herbal essential oils. High concentration (10%) of herbal essential oils showed high percent effective repellency (ER). The 10% I. verum oil caused complete oviposition deterrence (100% ER, oviposition activity index (OAI) = -1.0), followed by Z. cussumunar, M. piperita, L. angustifolia, C. citratus, C. sinensis, and E. glubulus oils with 97.20, 88.55, 88.14, 87.93, 76.68, and 57.00% ER, respectively. As the concentration of herbal essential oils increased from 1.0, 5.0, and up to 10.0% concentration, the hatching rate decreased. Ten percent I. verum oil gave the maximum inhibiting rate at 97.3% (LC50 value of 6.85%); in addition, the other herbal essential oils showed the minimum inhibiting rate of 3.3-22.7%. On the other hand, cypermethrin 10% w/v showed complete oviposition deterrence (100% ER, OAI = -1.0) and ovicidal activity (100% inhibiting rate). Our data showed that I. verum oil have high potential of oviposition deterrence and ovicide housefly control.	1	pesticide
24899256	Enantioselective bioaccumulation and toxic effects of fipronil in the earthworm Eisenia foetida following soil exposure.	BACKGROUND: Enantiomers of chiral pesticides often have different bioactivity, toxicity and environmental behaviours. Fipronil has been used in racemate for agricultural purposes against soil insects, leading to increased inputs into soil environments and complex biota exposures. To understand the potential risk associated with fipronil enantiomer exposure, subchronic toxicity and bioaccumulation tests with earthworms (Eisenia foetida) in fipronil-spiked soils were evaluated under laboratory conditions. RESULTS: Enantioselective toxicity was measured in E. foetida biomass after 28 days of subchronic exposure, with increased toxicity from racemate and S-fipronil compared with R-fipronil. The bioaccumulation of fipronil in earthworm tissues was also enantioselective, with a preferential accumulation of S-fipronil, and the enantiomer fraction was approximately 0.56-0.60. During soil exposure, fipronil was transformed primarily into fipronil sulfide, sulfone and amide, and E. foetida rapidly accumulated fipronil and sulfone. CONCLUSION: This work demonstrates the enantioselective subchronic toxicity and bioaccumulation of enantiomers of fipronil in E. foetida. The earthworm tissues exhibited a relative enrichment of fipronil and fipronil sulfone, and these compounds might biomagnify (with a biota-to-soil accumulation factor of ≥1.0 kgOCkglip-1), allowing for the possible trophic transfer and/or bioaccumulation of all these chemicals if earthworms were consumed by predator organisms.	1	pesticide
24901961	Modelling the biphasic sorption of simazine, imidacloprid, and boscalid in water/soil systems.	The sorption kinetics of simazine (6-chloro-N,N'-diethyl-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine), imidacloprid (1-(6-chloro-3-pyridylmethyl)-N-nitroimidazolidin-2-ylideneamine), and boscalid (2-chloro-N-(4'-chlorobiphenyl-2-yl)nicotinamide), three pesticides of wide use in agriculture, was determined in five different water/soil systems over a time interval from the initial few seconds to about 1 month. In all the experiments, sorption kinetics showed a biphasic pattern characterized by an initial, relatively short phase with a high sorption rate and a later phase with much a lower sorption rate. Initial sorption capacity increased with soil organic carbon content and with sorbate hydrophobicity. We postulate that the first phase of the process involves a fast second-order sorption reaction on superficial sites of soil particles, whereas the second phase depends on diffusion-controlled migration to internal binding sites. A kinetic equation based on this hybrid model accurately fitted all data sets. Less satisfactory results were obtained employing the pseudo-first order, pseudo-second order, Elovich, two site non-equilibrium, or Weber-Morris equation. The superior performance of the hybrid model for describing boscalid sorption probably reflects the high hydrophobic character and consequent low diffusion rates of this compound. The accuracy of modelling was in any case strongly dependent on the time interval considered.	1	pesticide
24928381	Toxicity of atrazine and its bioaccumulation and biodegradation in a green microalga, Chlamydomonas mexicana.	This study evaluated the toxicity of herbicide atrazine, along with its bioaccumulation and biodegradation in the green microalga Chlamydomonas mexicana. At low concentration (10 μg L(-1)), atrazine had no profound effect on the microalga, while higher concentrations (25, 50, and 100 μg L(-1)) imposed toxicity, leading to inhibition of cell growth and chlorophyll a accumulation by 22 %, 33 %, and 36 %, and 13 %, 24 %, and 27 %, respectively. Atrazine 96-h EC50 for C. mexicana was estimated to be 33 μg L(-1). Microalga showed a capability to accumulate atrazine in the cell and to biodegrade the cell-accumulated atrazine resulting in 14-36 % atrazine degradation at 10-100 μg L(-1). Increasing atrazine concentration decreased the total fatty acids (from 102 to 75 mg g(-1)) and increased the unsaturated fatty acid content in the microalga. Carbohydrate content increased gradually with the increase in atrazine concentration up to 15 %. This study shows that C. mexicana has the capability to degrade atrazine and can be employed for the remediation of atrazine-contaminated streams.	1	pesticide
24931502	Functional characterization of 5-enopyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase from Alkaliphilus metalliredigens in transgenic Arabidopsis.	Although a large number of AroA enzymes (EPSPS: 5-enopyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase) have been identified, cloned, and tested for glyphosate resistance, only two AroA variants, derived from Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain CP4 and Zea mays, have been utilized to produce the commercial glyphosate-resistant crops. Here, we have used a PCR-based twostep DNA synthesis method to synthesize an aroA gene (aroAA. metalliredigens) from Alkaliphilus metalliredigens, encoding a new EPSPS. Furthermore, transgenic Arabidopsis with the new aroAA. metalliredigens gene was obtained to confirm the potential of the novel aroA gene in developing glyphosate-resistant crops.	1	pesticide
24967135	The Efficacy of Vectron 20 WP, Etofenprox, for Indoor Residual Spraying in Areas of High Vector Resistance to Pyrethroids and Organochlorines in Zambia.	The selection of insecticide resistance in malaria vectors has the potential to compromise any insecticide-based vector control programme. To ensure that the insecticides used for indoor residual spraying and insecticide-treated nets in Zambia remain effective and their choice is evidence based, insecticide resistance surveillance and monitoring are essential. This study assessed and compared the residual efficacy of etofenprox (Vectron 20 WP), an ether pyrethroid, at 0.1 g/m(2) with pyrethroids: bifenthrin (Bistar 10 WP) and lambda-cyhalothrin (Icon 10 CS) at 25 mg/m(2) for indoor residual spraying. We also assessed the resistance status of etofenprox to local malaria vectors, An. funestus s.s and An. gambiae s.s, using World Health Organization standard protocols. The residual efficacy of Vectron 20 WP on cement, rendered walls of houses lasted for four months with 100% mortality. By the eighth month, the killing effect had reduced to 73.8% compared to 63.3% for bifenthrin and 77.0% for lambda-cyhalothrin. Susceptibility tests using standard World Health Organization assays on An. gambiae s.s showed susceptibility to etofenprox (0.1%) but some resistance was detected to Anopheles funestus s.s. The product is recommended as an ideal insecticide for indoor residual spraying for malaria control in Zambia as part of a resistance management programme in selected areas of the country. 	1	pesticide
24979751	Paraoxonase enzyme protects retinal pigment epithelium from chlorpyrifos insult.	Retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) provides nourishment and protection to the eye. RPE dysfunction due to oxidative stress and inflammation is one of the major reason for many of the retinal disorders. Organophosphorus pesticides are widely used in the agricultural, industrial and household activities in India. However, their effects on the eye in the context of RPE has not been studied. In this study the defense of the ARPE19 cells exposed to Chlorpyrifos (1 nM to 100 µM) in terms of the enzyme paraoxonase (PON) was studied at 24 hr and 9 days of treatment. Chlorpyrifos was found to induce oxidative stress in the ARPE19 cells as seen by significant increase in ROS and decrease in glutathione (GSH) levels without causing cell death. Tissue resident Paraoxonase 2 (PON2) mRNA expression was elevated with chlorpyrifos exposure. The three enzymatic activities of PON namely, paraoxonase (PONase), arylesterase (PON AREase) and thiolactonase (PON HCTLase) were also found to be significantly altered to detoxify and as an antioxidant defense. Among the transcription factors regulating PON2 expression, SP1 was significantly increased with chlorpyrifos exposure. PON2 expression was found to be crucial as ARPE19 cells showed a significant loss in their ability to withstand oxidative stress when the cells were subjected to chlorpyrifos after silencing PON2 expression. Treatment with N-acetyl cysteine positively regulated the PON 2 expression, thus promoting the antioxidant defense put up by the cells in response to chlorpyrifos. 	1	pesticide
25003148	Assessment of pesticide residues in flesh of Catla catla from Ravi River, Pakistan.	The levels of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT), dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE), endosulfan, endosulfan sulfate, carbofuran, and cartap which were estimated in the flesh of Catla catla sampled from ten sites of Ravi River between its stretches from Shahdara to Head Balloki were studied to know the level of contamination of the selected pesticides by GC-ECD method. All fish samples were found contaminated with different concentrations of DDT, DDE, endosulfan, and carbofuran; however, DDT and DDE concentrations were more than the maximum residue limits (MRLs) about food standards, while endosulfan sulfate and cartap were not detected. Pesticide concentrations in the fish flesh were ranged from 3.240 to 3.389 for DDT, 2.290 to 2.460 for DDE, 0.112 to 0.136 for endosulfan, and 0.260 to 0.370 μg g(-1) for carbofuran. The findings revealed that the pesticide concentrations in the fish flesh decreased in the order: DDT > DDE > carbofuran > endosulfan. After Degh fall and After Hudiara nulla fall river sampling sites were found severely contaminated. It is proposed that a constant monitoring programs are needed to be initiated to overcome the present alarming situation.	1	pesticide
25026670	Impact of corn earworm injury on yield of transgenic corn producing Bt toxins in the Carolinas.	Transgenic corn, Zea mays L., hybrids expressing insecticidal Cry proteins from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) and insecticide applications to suppress injury from Helicoverpa zea (Boddie) were evaluated in Florence, SC, and in Plymouth, NC, in 2012 and 2013. Based on kernel area injured, insecticide applications (chlorantraniliprole) every 3-4 d from R1 until H. zea had cycled out of corn reduced injury by 80-93% in Florence and 94-95% in Plymouth. Despite intensive applications of insecticide (13-18 per trial), limited injury still occurred in all treated plots in 2012, except in DKC 68-03 (Genuity VT Double PRO), based on kernels injured (both locations) and proportion of injured ears (Florence only). In 2013, ear injury was low in Plymouth, with no kernel injury in any insecticide-treated plots, except P1498R (non-Bt) and P1498YHR (Optimum Intrasect). Injury in Florence in 2013 did not occur in treated plots of DKC 68-04 (non-Bt), DKC 68-03 (Genuity VT Double PRO), and N785-3111 (Agrisure Viptera). Yields were not significantly affected by insecticide treatment and were not statistically different among near-isolines with and without Bt traits. Yields were not significantly associated with kernel injury based on regression analyses. The value of using Bt corn hybrids to manage H. zea is discussed.	1	pesticide
25030173	Declines in insectivorous birds are associated with high neonicotinoid concentrations.	Recent studies have shown that neonicotinoid insecticides have adverse effects on non-target invertebrate species. Invertebrates constitute a substantial part of the diet of many bird species during the breeding season and are indispensable for raising offspring. We investigated the hypothesis that the most widely used neonicotinoid insecticide, imidacloprid, has a negative impact on insectivorous bird populations. Here we show that, in the Netherlands, local population trends were significantly more negative in areas with higher surface-water concentrations of imidacloprid. At imidacloprid concentrations of more than 20 nanograms per litre, bird populations tended to decline by 3.5 per cent on average annually. Additional analyses revealed that this spatial pattern of decline appeared only after the introduction of imidacloprid to the Netherlands, in the mid-1990s. We further show that the recent negative relationship remains after correcting for spatial differences in land-use changes that are known to affect bird populations in farmland. Our results suggest that the impact of neonicotinoids on the natural environment is even more substantial than has recently been reported and is reminiscent of the effects of persistent insecticides in the past. Future legislation should take into account the potential cascading effects of neonicotinoids on ecosystems. 	1	pesticide
25044296	Effects of pesticide exposure and the amphibian chytrid fungus on gray treefrog (Hyla chrysoscelis) metamorphosis.	Pesticides are detectable in most aquatic habitats and have the potential to alter host-pathogen interactions. The amphibian chytrid fungus, Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd), has been associated with amphibian declines around the world. However, Bd-associated declines are more prominent in some areas, despite nearly global distribution of Bd, suggesting other factors contribute to disease outbreaks. In a laboratory study, the authors examined the effects of 6 different isolates of Bd in the presence or absence of a pesticide (the insecticide carbaryl or the fungicide copper sulfate) to recently hatched Cope's gray treefrog (Hyla chrysoscelis) tadpoles reared through metamorphosis. The authors found the presence or absence of pesticides differentially altered the mass at metamorphosis of tadpoles exposed to different Bd isolates, suggesting that isolate could influence metamorphosis but not in ways expected based on origin of the isolate. Pesticide exposure had the strongest impact on metamorphosis of all treatment combinations. Whereas copper sulfate exposure reduced the length of the larval period, carbaryl exposure had apparent positive effects by increasing mass at metamorphosis and lengthening larval period, which adds to evidence that carbaryl can stimulate development in counterintuitive ways. The present study provides limited support to the hypothesis that pesticides can alter the response of tadpoles to isolates of Bd and that the insecticide carbaryl can alter developmental decisions.	1	pesticide
25054487	Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus resistant to acaricides and ivermectin in cattle farms of Mexico.	Ticks and the diseases they transmit cause great economic losses to livestock in tropical countries. Non-chemical control alternatives include the use of resistant cattle breeds, biological control and vaccines. However, the most widely used method is the application of different chemical classes of acaricides and macrocyclic lactones. Populations of the cattle tick, Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus, resistant to organophosphates (OP), synthetic pyrethroids (SP), amitraz and fipronil have been reported in Mexico. Macrocyclic lactones are the most sold antiparasitic drug in the Mexican veterinary market. Ivermectin-resistant populations of R. (B.) microplus have been reported in Brazil, Uruguay and especially in Mexico (Veracruz and Yucatan). Although ivermectin resistance levels in R. (B.) microplus from Mexico were generally low in most cases, some field populations of R. (B.) microplus exhibited high levels of ivermectin resistance. The CHPAT population showed a resistance ratio of 10.23 and 79.6 at lethal concentration of 50% and 99%, respectively. Many field populations of R. (B.) microplus are resistant to multiple classes of antiparasitic drugs, including organophosphates (chlorpyrifos, coumaphos and diazinon), pyrethroids (flumethrin, deltamethrin and cypermethrin), amitraz and ivermectin. This paper reports the current status of the resistance of R. (B.) microplus to acaricides, especially ivermectin, in Mexican cattle. 	1	pesticide
25062345	Rapid detection of atrazine and metolachlor in farm soils: gas chromatography-mass spectrometry-based analysis using the bubble-in-drop single drop microextraction enrichment method.	"Tracking of metolachlor and atrazine herbicides in agricultural soils, from spraying through to harvest, was conducted using our recently reported ""bubble-in-drop single-drop microextraction"" method. The method showed good linearity (R(2) = 0.999 and 0.999) in the concentration range of 0.01-1.0 ng/mL with LOD values of 0.01 and 0.02 ng/mL for atrazine and metolachlor, respectively. Sonication methods were poor at releasing these herbicides from the soil matrixes, while hot water extraction readily liberated them, providing an efficient accessible alternative to sonication techniques. Good recoveries of 97% and 105% were shown for atrazine and metolachlor, respectively, from the soil. The spiking protocol was also investigated, resulting in a traceless spiking method. We demonstrate a very sensitive technique by which to assess, for example, the length of residence of pesticides in given soils and thus risk of exposure. "	1	pesticide
25063914	Estimating terrestrial amphibian pesticide body burden through dermal exposure.	Dermal exposure presents a potentially significant but understudied route for pesticide uptake in terrestrial amphibians. Our study measured dermal uptake of pesticides of varying hydrophobicity (logKow) in frogs. Amphibians were indirectly exposed to one of five pesticide active ingredients through contact with contaminated soil: imidacloprid (logKow = 0.57), atrazine (logKow = 2.5), triadimefon (logKow = 3.0), fipronil (logKow = 4.11) or pendimethalin (logKow = 5.18). All amphibians had measurable body burdens at the end of the exposure in concentrations ranging from 0.019 to 14.562 μg/g across the pesticides tested. Atrazine produced the greatest body burdens and bioconcentration factors, but fipronil was more permeable to amphibian skin when application rate was considered. Soil partition coefficient and water solubility were much better predictors of pesticide body burden, bioconcentration factor, and skin permeability than logKow. Dermal uptake data can be used to improve risk estimates of pesticide exposure among amphibians as non-target organisms. 	1	pesticide
25065822	Novel pipette-tip graphene/poly (vinyl alcohol) cryogel composite extractor for the analysis of carbofuran and carbaryl in water.	A novel pipette-tip extractor of a graphene/poly (vinyl alcohol) cryogel (graphene/PVA) composite sorbent was prepared to preconcentrate carbamate pesticides in environmental water samples before analysis with a gas chromatograph-flame ionization detector (GC-FID). This novel pipette-tip extractor with the graphene/PVA sorbent exhibited a high porosity when observed through a scanning electron micrograph (SEM). Under optimal conditions, using only 1.0 mL of sample and 0.75 mL of eluting solvent, the developed method provided a wide linear range of 10-700 ng mL(-1) and 10-500 ng mL(-1) with limit of detection (LOD) of 6.40 ± 0.18 and 9.17 ± 0.34 ng mL(-1) for carbofuran (2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethylbenzofuran-7-yl methylcarbamate) and carbaryl (1-naphthyl methylcarbamate), respectively. The pipette-tip extractor provided high extraction efficiency with high accuracy indicated, by good recoveries in the range of 74.5 ± 4.8% to 119.7 ± 1.6% and 76 ± 15% to 114 ± 19% for carbofuran and carbaryl, respectively. In addition, the fabrication procedure showed a good pipette-tip extractor-to-pipette-tip extractor reproducibility with a relative standard deviation of 1.3-9.8% (n = 5). When the developed pipette-tip extractor was applied for the extraction of carbofuran and carbaryl in surface water samples near vegetable plantation areas, 25.9 ± 8.2 ng mL(-1) of carbofuran was found, and carbaryl was also detected in concentrations that ranged from 45.0 ± 4.0 to 191 ± 13 ng mL(-1).	1	pesticide
25079171	Possible effects of glyphosate on Mucorales abundance in the rumen of dairy cows in Germany.	Glyphosate (N-phosphonomethyl glycine) is registered as a herbicide for many food and non-food crops, as well as non-crop areas where total vegetation control is desired. Glyphosate influences the soil mycobiota; however, the possible effect of glyphosate residues in animal feed (soybean, corn, etc.) on animal mycobiota is almost unknown. Accordingly, the present study was initiated to investigate the mycological characteristics of dairy cows in relationship to glyphosate concentrations in urine. A total of 258 dairy cows on 14 dairy farms in Germany were examined. Glyphosate was detected in urine using ELISA. The fungal profile was analyzed in rumen fluid samples using conventional microbiological culture techniques and differentiated by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. LPS-binding protein (LBP) and antibodies (IgG1, IgG2, IgA, and IgM) against fungi were determined in blood using ELISA. Different populations of Lichtheimia corymbifera, Lichtheimia ramosa, Mucor, and Rhizopus were detected. L. corymbifera and L. ramosa were significantly more abundant in animals containing high glyphosate (>40 ng/ml) concentrations in urine. There were no significant changes in IgG1 and IgG2 antibodies toward isolated fungi that were related to glyphosate concentration in urine; however, IgA antibodies against L. corymbifera and L. ramosa were significantly lower in the higher glyphosate groups. Moreover, a negative correlation between IgM antibodies against L. corymbifera, L. ramosa, and Rhizopus relative to glyphosate concentration in urine was observed. LBP also was significantly decreased in animals with higher concentrations of glyphosate in their urine. In conclusion, glyphosate appears to modulate the fungal community. The reduction of IgM antibodies and LBP indicates an influence on the innate immune system of animals.	1	pesticide
25096486	Environmental fate and exposure; neonicotinoids and fipronil.	Systemic insecticides are applied to plants using a wide variety of methods, ranging from foliar sprays to seed treatments and soil drenches. Neonicotinoids and fipronil are among the most widely used pesticides in the world. Their popularity is largely due to their high toxicity to invertebrates, the ease and flexibility with which they can be applied, their long persistence, and their systemic nature, which ensures that they spread to all parts of the target crop. However, these properties also increase the probability of environmental contamination and exposure of nontarget organisms. Environmental contamination occurs via a number of routes including dust generated during drilling of dressed seeds, contamination and accumulation in arable soils and soil water, runoff into waterways, and uptake of pesticides by nontarget plants via their roots or dust deposition on leaves. Persistence in soils, waterways, and nontarget plants is variable but can be prolonged; for example, the half-lives of neonicotinoids in soils can exceed 1,000 days, so they can accumulate when used repeatedly. Similarly, they can persist in woody plants for periods exceeding 1 year. Breakdown results in toxic metabolites, though concentrations of these in the environment are rarely measured. Overall, there is strong evidence that soils, waterways, and plants in agricultural environments and neighboring areas are contaminated with variable levels of neonicotinoids or fipronil mixtures and their metabolites (soil, parts per billion (ppb)-parts per million (ppm) range; water, parts per trillion (ppt)-ppb range; and plants, ppb-ppm range). This provides multiple routes for chronic (and acute in some cases) exposure of nontarget animals. For example, pollinators are exposed through direct contact with dust during drilling; consumption of pollen, nectar, or guttation drops from seed-treated crops, water, and consumption of contaminated pollen and nectar from wild flowers and trees growing near-treated crops. Studies of food stores in honeybee colonies from across the globe demonstrate that colonies are routinely and chronically exposed to neonicotinoids, fipronil, and their metabolites (generally in the 1-100 ppb range), mixed with other pesticides some of which are known to act synergistically with neonicotinoids. Other nontarget organisms, particularly those inhabiting soils, aquatic habitats, or herbivorous insects feeding on noncrop plants in farmland, will also inevitably receive exposure, although data are generally lacking for these groups. We summarize the current state of knowledge regarding the environmental fate of these compounds by outlining what is known about the chemical properties of these compounds, and placing these properties in the context of modern agricultural practices. 	1	pesticide
25134893	Multiple resistance of Culex vishnui Theobald against four major classes of insecticides in an agricultural area in Sekinchan, Selangor, Malaysia.	The resistance status of riceland Culex vishnui against four major groups of insecticides (i.e., organochlorines, carbamates, organophosphates and pyrethroids) was investigated. Biochemical assays (ESTα, ESTβ, MFO and GST) were also conducted to detect the resistance levels. Throughout a 12-month study period, multiple insecticide resistance was observed in both larvae and adult Cx vishnui. Culex vishnui larvae exhibited low resistance against malathion, temephos and permethrin with resistance ratio (RR) values < 5. In adult bioassay, Cx. vishnui were highly resistant against all tested adulticides with 24h post-treatment mortality < 70%. Correlations between permethrin and malathion resistance, as well as between deltamethrin and cyfluthrin resistance were found in Cx. vishnui. The results indicated that mixed function oxidases activity of Cx. vishnui was the highest compared to ESTα, ESTβ and GST. Spearman rank-order analysis showed that ESTα, ESTβ and GST were involved in multiple resistances in Cx. vishnui. The findings of this study established a baseline of insecticide susceptibility and revealed the effects of agricultural insecticide pressure on the vectors of Japanese encephalitis in Malaysia. 	1	pesticide
25151332	Solid-phase extraction of phosphorous-containing amino acid herbicides from biological specimens with a zirconia-coated silica cartridge.	We report a rapid solid-phase extraction method for glyphosate (Glyp), glufosinate (Gluf), and bialaphos (Bial) using a zirconia-coated silica cartridge, which interacts specifically with phosphorous-containing amino acid herbicides (PAAHs). We extracted PAAHs from serum and urine samples. The PAAHs were derivatized with trimethyl orthoacetate-acetic acid and analyzed by ultra-performance liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS). The intra-day and inter-day accuracy was within ±13% RE, the intra-day and inter-day precision was less than 12% RSD, and the total recovery was more than 60% for Glyp and more than 80% for Gluf and Bial. The linearity ranges of the calibration curves of the serum samples were 0.2-10,000μg/mL for Glyp, 0.1-1000μg/L for Gluf, and 0.5-1000μg/L for Bial; and those of the urine samples were 0.4-20,000μg/L for Glyp, 0.2-2000μg/L for Gluf, and 0.1-2000μg/L for Bial. This range covers almost all the reported poisoning cases involving these compounds, from very mild to fatal cases. The present paper offers a universal cleanup method for PAAHs in serum and urine samples for clinical and forensic analysis. 	1	pesticide
25155008	Mobility and efficacy of abamectin and imidacloprid against Rhynchophorus ferrugineus in Phoenix canariensis by different application methods.	BACKGROUND: Rhynchophorus ferrugineus is the most destructive pest of palms. As detection of early infestation stages is difficult, preventive measures, mostly chemical control, are crucial. Stipe injection of insecticides has developed rapidly as a suitable technique. However, pesticide movement within palms and palm reaction to wounding remain controversial. We used abamectin and imidacloprid applied by crown spray, stipe and frond injections to disentangle how these pesticides move within P. canariensis and how tissues wounded by injection heal. Furthermore, we established their lethal doses to larvae of R. ferrugineus. RESULTS: Maximum residues of imidacloprid (0.1 mg kg(-1) ) were detected in crown and frond samples for up to 2 months after stipe injection, whereas maximum residues of abamectin were found in frond tip samples (0.5 mg active substance kg(-1) ) 5 months after stipe injection. Based on the lethal concentrations calculated, these doses could satisfactorily protect palms for up to 3 months after treatment. No significant wound damage was observed 2 years after injection. CONCLUSION: Stipe injection, irrespective of the active substance considered, resulted in better distribution and higher persistence compared with frond injection and, especially, crown spray. As a consequence, our results point to stipe injection as a good alternative to control R. ferrugineus.	1	pesticide
25164348	Removal performance of nitrogen and endocrine-disrupting pesticides simultaneously in the enhanced biofilm system for polluted source water pretreatment.	The removal performances of nitrogen and trace levels of endocrine-disrupting pesticides (cypermethrin and chlorpyrifos) were studied in the enhanced biofilm pretreatment system at various substrates concentrations and dissolve oxygen (DO) niches. No significant change of EDPs removal occurred with the increased feed of ammonia nitrogen in aerobic batch tests or nitrate in anaerobic batch reactors, but significantly enhanced via reed addition both in aerobic and anaerobic conditions. Simultaneously enhanced denitrification and EDPs removal were achieved in the anoxic niche with reed addition. The results of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) indicated that new bands appeared, and some bands became more intense with the reed addition. Sequences analysis showed that the dominant species belonged to Methylophilaceae, Hyphomicrobium, Bacillus and Thauera, which were related to the nitrogen or EDPs removals. In addition, the growth of functional heterotrophic microbes may be promoted via reed addition. 	1	pesticide
25175644	Pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokine expression in immune organs of the common carp exposed to atrazine and chlorpyrifos.	Atrazine (ATR) and chlorpyrifos (CPF) are toxic and subject to long-term in vivo accumulation in different aquatic species throughout the world. The purpose of the present study was to examine the effect of ATR, CPF and combined ATR/CPF exposure on cytokines in the head kidney and spleen of common carp (Cyprinus carpio L.). The carp were sampled after a 40-d exposure to CPF and ATR, individually or in combination, followed by a 40-d recovery to measure the mRNA expression of IL-6fam (IL-6), IL-8, TNF-α, IL-10 and TGF-β1 (TGF-β) in the head kidney and spleen tissues. These results showed that the expression of cytokines IL-6, IL-8 and TNF-α in the head kidney and spleen was upregulated following ATR, CPF and mixed ATR/CPF exposure compared with the control group. The expression of IL-10 and TGF-β mRNA was significantly inhibited in both head kidney and spleen of carp exposed to ATR, CPF and the ATR/CPF mixture. The results suggested that long-term exposure of ATR, CPF and the ATR/CPF mixture in aquatic environments can induce the dysregulation of pro-/anti-inflammatory cytokine expression. The information regarding the effects of ATR and CPF on cytokine mRNA expression generated in this study will be important information for pesticides toxicology evaluation. 	1	pesticide
25180399	Glyphosate resistance: state of knowledge.	Studies of mechanisms of resistance to glyphosate have increased current understanding of herbicide resistance mechanisms. Thus far, single-codon non-synonymous mutations of EPSPS (5-enolypyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase) have been rare and, relative to other herbicide mode of action target-site mutations, unconventionally weak in magnitude for resistance to glyphosate. However, it is possible that weeds will emerge with non-synonymous mutations of two codons of EPSPS to produce an enzyme endowing greater resistance to glyphosate. Today, target-gene duplication is a common glyphosate resistance mechanism and could become a fundamental process for developing any resistance trait. Based on competition and substrate selectivity studies in several species, rapid vacuole sequestration of glyphosate occurs via a transporter mechanism. Conversely, as the chloroplast requires transporters for uptake of important metabolites, transporters associated with the two plastid membranes may separately, or together, successfully block glyphosate delivery. A model based on finite glyphosate dose and limiting time required for chloroplast loading sets the stage for understanding how uniquely different mechanisms can contribute to overall glyphosate resistance.	1	pesticide
25196435	In vitro selection of a single-stranded DNA molecular recognition element against atrazine.	Widespread use of the chlorotriazine herbicide, atrazine, has led to serious environmental and human health consequences. Current methods of detecting atrazine contamination are neither rapid nor cost-effective. In this work, atrazine-specific single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) molecular recognition elements (MRE) were isolated. We utilized a stringent Systematic Evolution of Ligands by Exponential Enrichment (SELEX) methodology that placed the greatest emphasis on what the MRE should not bind to. After twelve rounds of SELEX, an atrazine-specific MRE with high affinity was obtained. The equilibrium dissociation constant (Kd) of the ssDNA sequence is 0.62 ± 0.21 nM. It also has significant selectivity for atrazine over atrazine metabolites and other pesticides found in environmentally similar locations and concentrations. Furthermore, we have detected environmentally relevant atrazine concentrations in river water using this MRE. The strong affinity and selectivity of the selected atrazine-specific ssDNA validated the stringent SELEX methodology and identified a MRE that will be useful for rapid atrazine detection in environmental samples. 	1	pesticide
25197693	Polyelectrolytes ability in reducing atrazine concentration in water: surface effects.	This paper reports on the direct ability of two positively charged organic polyelectrolytes (natural-based and synthetic) to reduce the atrazine concentration in water. The adsorption study was set up using multiple glass vessels with different polymer dosing levels followed by ultrafiltration with a 1 kDa membrane. The addition of polymers exhibited a capability in reducing the atrazine concentration up to a maximum of 60% in surface-to-volume ratio experiments. In the beginning, the theoretical L-type of the isotherm of Giles' classification was expected with an increase in the dosage of the polymer. However, in this study, the conventional type of isotherm was not observed. It was found that the adsorption of the cationic polymer on the negatively charged glass surface was necessary and influential for the removal of atrazine. Surface-to-volume ratio adsorption experiments were performed to elucidate the mechanisms and the polymer configuration. The glass surface area was determined to be a limiting parameter in the adsorption mechanism. 	1	pesticide
25205398	Botanicals, selective insecticides, and predators to control Diaphorina citri (Hemiptera: Liviidae) in citrus orchards.	"The Asian citrus psyllid (ACP) Diaphorina citri Kuwayama vectors pathogens that cause huanglongbing (HLB) or citrus greening devastating and economically important disease present in most citrus growing regions. Young citrus shoots are required for psyllid reproduction and development. During winter citrus trees produce little or no new growth. Overwintering adults reproduce in spring on newly emerging shoots also attractive to other pests and beneficial insects. Botanicals and relatively selective insecticides could help to conserve beneficial insects and reduce pest resistance to insecticides. Sprays of Azadirachtin (Neem), Tropane (Datura), Spirotetramat, Spinetoram, and broad-spectrum Imidacloprid were evaluated to control ACP in spring and summer on 10-year-old ""Kinow"" Citrus reticulata Blanco trees producing new growth. Psyllid populations were high averaging 5-9 nymphs or adults per sample before treatment application. Nymphs or adults were significantly reduced to 0.5-1.5 per sample in all treatments for 3 weeks, average 61%-83% reduction. No significant reduction in ladybeetles Adalia bipunctata, Aneglei scardoni, Cheilomenes sexmaculata, and Coccinella septempunctata was observed. Syrphids, spiders and green lacewings were reduced in treated trees except with Tropane. Studies are warranted to assess impact of these predators on ACP and interaction with insecticides. Observed reduction in ACP populations may not be enough considering its reproductive potential and role in the spread of HLB. Follow-up sprays may be required to achieve additional suppression using rotations of different insecticides. "	1	pesticide
25288989	Fungicide Sensitivity and Characterization of Cobweb Disease on a Pleurotus eryngii Mushroom Crop Caused by Cladobotryum mycophilum.	In 2009-2010, unusual symptoms were observed on Pleurotus eryngii grown in mushroom farms in Gyeongnam Province, Republic of Korea. One of the main symptoms was a cobweb-like growth of fungal mycelia over the surface of the mushroom. The colonies on the surface rapidly overwhelmed the mushrooms and developed several spores within 3-4 days. The colonized surface turned pale brown or yellow. The fruit body eventually turned dark brown and became rancid. Koch's postulates were completed by spraying and spotting using isolated strains. The phylogenetic tree obtained from the internal transcribed spacer sequence analysis showed that the isolated fungal pathogen corresponded to Cladobotryum mycophilum (99.5%). In the fungicide sensitivity tests, the ED50 values for the isolate with respect to benomyl and carbendazim were from 0.29 to 0.31 ppm. Benzimidazole fungicides were most effective against C. mycophilum, a causal agent of cobweb disease in P. eryngii. 	1	pesticide
25298152	Mixture toxicity of imidacloprid and cyfluthrin to two non-target species, the fathead minnow Pimephales promelas and the amphipod Hyalella azteca.	Two species, the fathead minnow Pimephales promelas and the amphipod Hyalella azteca, were tested to examine acute toxicity to two insecticides, cyfluthrin and imidacloprid individually and as a mixture. Cyfluthrin was acutely toxic to P. promelas and H. azteca with EC50 values and 95 % confidence intervals of 0.31 µg L(-1) (0.26-0.35 µg L(-1)) and 0.0015 µg L(-1) (0.0011-0.0018 µg L(-1)), respectively. Imidacloprid was not acutely toxic to P. promelas at water concentrations ranging from 1 to 5000 µg L(-1), whereas it was toxic to H. azteca with a EC50 value of 33.5 µg L(-1) (23.3-47.4 µg L(-1)). For the P. promelas mixture test, imidacloprid was added at a single concentration to a geometric series of cyfluthrin concentrations bracketing the EC50 value. A synergistic ratio (SR) of 1.9 was found for P. promelas, which was calculated using the cyfluthrin-only exposure and mixture-exposure data. Because cyfluthrin and imidacloprid were toxic to H. azteca, the mixture test was designed based on an equipotent toxic unit method. Results from the mixture test indicated a model deviation ratio (MDR) of 1.7 or 2.7 depending on the model. Mixture test results from the simultaneous exposure to cyfluthrin and imidacloprid with both species indicated a greater than expected toxic response because the SR or MDR values were >1. Because these two insecticides are commonly used together in the same product formulations, nontarget species could be more affected due to their greater-than-additive toxicity observed in the current study.	1	pesticide
25307461	Glyphosate spray drift in Coffea arabica - sensitivity of coffee plants and possible use of shikimic acid as a biomarker for glyphosate exposure.	Glyphosate is widely used in coffee plantations to control weeds. Lacking selectivity, glyphosate spray drift is suspected to cause adverse effects in coffee plants. Symptoms caused by glyphosate can be similar to those produced by other stress factors. However, shikimic acid accumulation should be a useful biomarker for glyphosate exposure as shown for other crops. The aim of this study was to assess the sensitivity of coffee plants towards glyphosate on different biological response variables and to evaluate the use of shikimic acid as biomarker. Dose-response experiments yielded ED50 values (50% effect dose) in the range of 38-550 ga.e.ha(-1) depending on the quantitative or qualitative variable monitored. The frequency of plants showing symptoms was the most sensitive variable. The best sampling time for shikimic acid accumulation was 1-2 weeks after glyphosate application, depending on experimental conditions. The highest shikimic acid accumulation was observed in young leaves. Shikimic acid is a suitable biomarker for a glyphosate exposure in coffee, using only young leaves for the analysis. Young coffee plants are susceptible to glyphosate damage. If symptoms are absent the risk of severe crop damage or yield loss is low.	1	pesticide
25346186	Presence and impact of allelic variations of two alternative s-kdr mutations, M918T and M918L, in the voltage-gated sodium channel of the green peach aphid Myzus persicae.	BACKGROUND: Pyrethroids have been widely employed in order to control several agricultural pests, including Myzus persicae. Target-site resistance is the main mechanism that confers insensitivity to this class of compounds, and the most common amino acid substitutions are kdr (L1014F) and s-kdr (M918T), but recently another mutation in the s-kdr locus (M918L) has been described in French and Korean populations of M. persicae. RESULTS: Molecular analysis of several Italian populations of M. persicae by pyrosequencing revealed the presence of the new s-kdr mutation (M918L) in different forms. It was found in two different nucleotide polymorphisms (a/t or a/c substitution), in heterozygous or homozygous status, and also in combination with the classic kdr and s-kdr. Bioassays on populations carrying the M918L mutation show that it strongly affects pyrethroid efficacy, particularly of type II pyrethroids such as lambda-cyhalothrin, while it has no effect against DDT. CONCLUSION: This work provides more information about the new s-kdr M918L mutation in M. persicae, describing a more complicated situation arising from the possible combination with the classic L1014F and M918T. Our data open new questions concerning the origin of these new genotypes with different combinations of target-site mutations, and also their possible influence on control strategies.	1	pesticide
25374420	Biological monitoring method for urinary neonicotinoid insecticides using LC-MS/MS and its application to Japanese adults.	OBJECTIVES: Agricultural use of neonicotinoid (NEO) insecticides has been increasing in recent years, but their biological monitoring methods have been scarcely reported. In this study, we developed and validated a rapid and sensitive method for quantifying urinary NEO concentrations using high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). METHODS: After phosphate-induced acidification of a urine sample, urinary NEOs were trapped by a solid-phase extraction column and eluted with methanol for acetamiprid, imidacloprid, thiacloprid, thiamethoxam, clothianidin and dinotefuran and with an acetonitrile and methanol solution (1:1, v/v) containing 5% NH3 for nitenpyram. A separation analysis was performed by LC-MS/MS within 10 minutes for the sample. This method was applied to first morning urine obtained from 52 Japanese (40.9 ± 10.5 years old, mean ± standard deviation) without occupational NEO exposure. RESULTS: The linear dynamic ranges and their limit of quantification (LOQ, signal to noise ratio=10) levels were 0.3-20 or 50 µg/l (r=0.998-0.999) and 0.05-0.36 µg/l, respectively. The absolute recovery was 64-95%, and the intra- and inter-day precisions were less than 16.4% (relative standard deviation, %RSD). This method was successfully applied for analysis of NEOs in human urine samples obtained from 52 adults. The frequencies of individuals who showed more than LOD levels was above 90% for imidacloprid, thiamethoxam, clothianidin and dinotefuran, more than 50% for acetamiprid and thiacloprid and 29% for nitenpyram. CONCLUSIONS: These results indicated that our new method could be applied to biological monitoring of NEO exposure even at environmental exposure levels in Japanese adults without occupational spraying histories.	1	pesticide
25382471	Acaricidal effects of fenvalerate and cypermethrin against Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) annulatus.	The acaricidal effects of two most commonly used acaricides viz., fenvalerate and cypermethrin against Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) annulatus were studied using Adult Immersion Test (AIT). The LC50 values observed for fenvalerate and cypermethrin were 1570 ppm and 184 ppm respectively. The death of ticks was not an immediate process. Fenvalerate caused death only after 7 days while cypermethrin after 5 days of treatment. The eggs laid by treated ticks did not hatch at all concentrations tested. 	1	pesticide
25395196	Acrolein-Induced Oxidative Stress and Cell Death Exhibiting Features of Apoptosis in the Yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae Deficient in SOD1.	The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a useful eukaryotic model to study the toxicity of acrolein, an important environmental toxin and endogenous product of lipid peroxidation. The study was aimed at elucidation of the cytotoxic effect of acrolein on the yeast deficient in SOD1, Cu, Zn-superoxide dismutase which is hypersensitive to aldehydes. Acrolein generated within the cell from its precursor allyl alcohol caused growth arrest and cell death of the yeast cells. The growth inhibition involved an increase in production of reactive oxygen species and high level of protein carbonylation. DNA condensation and fragmentation, exposition of phosphatidylserine at the cell surface as well as decreased dynamic of actin microfilaments and mitochondria disintegration point to the induction of apoptotic-type cell death besides necrotic cell death. 	1	pesticide
25400028	Determination of pharmaceuticals and pesticides in river sediments and corresponding surface and ground water in the Danube River and tributaries in Serbia.	The aim of this study was the development of analytical methods for the simultaneous determination of 25 selected pharmaceuticals, metabolites, and pesticides, belonging to the various chemical classes, in river sediments and their corresponding surface and ground water with the purpose of monitoring the contamination levels. The methods were based on the solid-phase extraction as the sample preparation method for water samples, and the ultrasonic solvent extraction for the sediment samples, followed by the liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. High recoveries were achieved for extraction from both water and sediment samples for the majority of analytes. Low limits of detection were achieved for all investigated compounds in the water sample (1-5 ng L(-1)) as well as in the sediment (1-3 ng g(-1)). Applicability of the developed methods was demonstrated by determination of pharmaceutical and pesticide residues in 30 surface water, 44 groundwater, and 5 sediment samples from the Danube River Basin in Serbia. Sixty percent of target compounds were detected in environmental samples. The most frequently detected analytes in river sediments were the pesticides dimethoate and atrazine, while carbamazepine and metamizole metabolites 4-AAA and 4-FAA were the most frequently found in water samples. 	1	pesticide
25441414	Development of a highly sensitive noncompetitive electrochemical immunosensor for the detection of atrazine by phage anti-immunocomplex assay.	The development of immunosensors for the detection of small molecules is of great interest because of their simplicity, high sensitivity and extended analytical range. Due to their size, small compounds cannot be simultaneously recognized by two antibodies impeding their detection by noncompetitive two-site immunoassays, which are superior to competitive ones in terms of sensitivity, kinetics, and working range. In this work, we combine the advantages of magneto-electrochemical immunosensors with the improved sensitivity and direct proportional signal of noncompetitive immunoassays to develop a new Phage Anti-Immunocomplex Electrochemical Immunosensor (PhAIEI) for the detection of the herbicide atrazine. The noncompetitive assay is based on the use of recombinant M13 phage particles bearing a peptide that specifically recognizes the immunocomplex of atrazine with an anti-atrazine monoclonal antibody. The PhAIEI performed with a limit of detection (LOD) of 0.2 pg mL(-1), which is 200-fold better than the LOD obtained using the same antibody in an optimized conventional competitive ELISA, with a large increase in working range. The developed PhAIEI was successfully used to assay undiluted river water samples with no pretreatment and excellent recoveries. Apart from the first demonstration of the benefits of integrating phage anti-immunocomplex particles into electrochemical immunosensors, the extremely low and environmentally relevant detection limits of atrazine attained with the PhAIEIS may have direct applicability to fast and sensitive detection of this herbicide in the environment.	1	pesticide
25462317	Acute toxicity and risk assessment of permethrin, naled, and dichlorvos to larval butterflies via ingestion of contaminated foliage.	Three Florida native larval butterflies (Junonia coenia, Anartia jatrophae, Eumaeus atala) were used in the present study to determine the acute toxicity, hazard, and risk of a 24h ingestion of leaves contaminated with the adult mosquito control insecticides permethrin, naled, and dichlorvos to late 4th and early 5th in-star caterpillars. Based on 24-h LD50s for ingestion, naled was more acutely toxic than permethrin and dichlorvos to caterpillars. Hazard quotients using the ratio of the highest doses and the 90th percentile doses from field measurements in host plant foliage following actual mosquito control applications to the toxicological benchmarks from laboratory toxicity tests indicate potential high acute hazard for naled compared to permethrin and dichlorvos. Based on probabilistic ecological risk methods, naled exposure doses in the environment also presented a higher acute risk to caterpillars than permethrin and dichlorvos. The acute toxicity laboratory results and ecological risk assessment are based only on dietary ingestion and single chemical doses. It does not include other typical exposure scenarios that may occur in the environment. It is thus plausible to state that the ecological risk assessment presented here underestimates the potential risks in the field to caterpillars. However, one assumption that is scientifically feasible and certainly real from the results - if the environmental exposure doses of mosquito control operations are similar or higher to those presented here in leaves from the field, after applications, there will likely be significant mortalities and other adverse effects on caterpillar populations. 	1	pesticide
25463238	Ternary toxicological interactions of insecticides, herbicides, and a heavy metal on the earthworm Eisenia fetida.	The combined toxicities of five insecticides (chlorpyrifos, avermectin, imidacloprid, λ-cyhalothrin, and phoxim), two herbicides (atrazine and butachlor), and a heavy metal (cadmium) have been examined using the acute toxicity test on the earthworm. With a concentration of 2.75 mg/kg being lethal for 50% of the organisms, imidacloprid exhibited the highest acute toxicity toward the earthworm Eisenia fetida. Toxicological interactions of these chemicals in ternary mixtures were studied using the combination-index (CI) equation method. Twenty-one ternary mixtures exhibited various interactive effects, in which 11 combinations showed synergistic effects, four led to dual synergistic/additive behaviors, one exhibited an additive effect, and five showed increasing antagonism within the entire range of effects. The CI method was compared with the classical models of concentration addition and independent action, and it was found that the CI method could accurately predict combined toxicity of the chemicals studied. The predicted synergism in the majority of the mixtures, especially at low-effect levels, might have implications in the real terrestrial environment.	1	pesticide
25464710	Biochemical changes induced by fungicides in nitrogen fixing Nostoc sp.	The present study indicates the effect of fungicides (approved by WHO) and their behavior on nitrogen fixer of rice eco system Nostoc sp. Application of plant protecting chemicals at recommended levels braced up the growth of blue green algae thereby enhancing heterocyst formation and nitrogenase activity. Nostoc sp demoed varying degrees of sensitivity to fungicides. Biomass yield, protein, carbohydrate content reduced after 3pg/mL concentration. Heterocyst damage was observed from 4μg/mL, Proline content increased with increase in fungicide concentration, utmost yellowing of the culture started from 4μg/mL. The decreasing order of the toxicity to Nostoc sp with fungicides was Mancozeb> Ediphenphos> Carbendazim> Hexaconazole.	1	pesticide
25472688	Distribution of selected antiandrogens and pharmaceuticals in a highly impacted watershed.	Endocrine disruption and high occurrences of intersex have been observed in wild fish associated with municipal wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) effluents in urbanized reaches of rivers around the globe. These reproductive effects have often been attributed to the presence of estrogen receptor agonists in effluents. However, recent studies have isolated a number of androgen receptor antagonists (antiandrogens) that may also contribute to the endocrine disruption observed at sites that are influenced by WWTP outfalls. This study aimed to characterize the spatial and temporal distribution of antiandrogenic personal care products (triclosan, chlorophene, dichlorophene, oxybenzone, 1-naphthol, and 2-naphthol), along with a herbicide (atrazine) and representative pharmaceuticals (carbamazepine, ibuprofen, naproxen, and venlafaxine) in the Grand River watershed in southern Ontario. Surface water sampling of 30 sites associated with six municipal WWTP outfalls was conducted during a summer low flow. Monthly samples were also collected immediately upstream and downstream of a major WWTP from August to November 2012. Atrazine was consistently found in all surface water sampling locations. Many of the target pharmaceuticals and triclosan were detected in WWTP effluents, especially those that did not nitrify. Under low flow conditions, the concentrations of triclosan and several pharmaceuticals increased directly downstream of the WWTPs then decreased rapidly with distance downstream. Chlorophene was either found at trace levels or below detection limits in the effluents while dichlorophene, oxybenzone, 1-naphthol, and 2-naphthol were not detected in any samples. Chlorophene was detected in surface water during the low flow summer period and once during the monthly sampling from August to November. However, the primary source of chlorophene did not appear to be associated with WWTP effluent. This study documents the spatial and temporal occurrence of several antiandrogens and pharmaceuticals in a highly impacted Canadian watershed. It supports previous observations that there is a diversity of contaminants in wastewater effluents and other sources that have the potential to alter endocrine function in wild fish. 	1	pesticide
25476376	Vortex-assisted low density solvent liquid-liquid microextraction and salt-induced demulsification coupled to high performance liquid chromatography for the determination of five organophosphorus pesticide residues in fruits.	A simple and rapid microextraction method, vortex-assisted low density solvent liquid-liquid microextraction and salt-induced demulsification (VLLME-SID) coupled to high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was developed for the determination of organophosphorus pesticide (OPP) residues in fruits. The studied OPPs were azinphos-methyl, parathion-methyl, fenitrothion, diazinon and chlorpyrifos. For VLLME-SID, a mixture of low density solvents (1-dodecanol and hexane) was used as the extraction solvent under vortex agitation for enhancing dispersion. After complete dispersion, the emulsion was formed and the OPPs were extracted into extraction solvent droplets. Then, the emulsion was quickly broken up into two clear phases after the addition of AlCl3 as a demulsifier. Centrifugation was not required in this procedure. Under the optimal conditions, high enrichment factors (180-282), low limit of detections (LODs) (0.05-1 ng mL(-1)) and good precision (RSD≤7% for retention time and peak area) were obtained. The proposed method was successfully applied to the analysis of OPP residues in fruit samples (watermelon, grape, and cantaloupe). The LODs for samples were in the range 0.0006-0.0015 mg kg(-1) which are below the established EU-MRLs (0.01-0.3 mg kg(-1)). Good recoveries were also obtained (80-104%).	1	pesticide
25504556	Heat-induced mortality and expression of heat shock proteins in Colorado potato beetles treated with imidacloprid.	The Colorado potato beetle is an important pest of solanaceous plants in the Northern Hemisphere. Better understanding of its physiological responses to temperature stress and their interactions with still-prevalent chemical control has important implications for the management of this insect. We measured mortality and expression of the Hsp70 heat shock proteins in the Colorado potato beetle larvae exposed to sublethal concentration of the commonly used insecticide imidacloprid, and to supraoptimal temperatures. Both turned out to be significant stress factors, although induction of Hsp70 by imidacloprid observed in the present study was low compared to its induction by the heat. The two factors also interacted with each other. At an extreme temperature of 43 °C, exposure to a sublethal dose of imidacloprid resulted in a significant rise in larval mortality, which was not observed at an optimal temperature of 25 °C. Heat-stressed larvae also failed to respond to imidacloprid by producing more Hsp70. These findings suggest that when field rates of insecticides become insufficient for killing the exposed beetles under optimal temperature conditions due to the evolution of resistance in beetle populations, they may still reduce the probability of resistant beetles surviving the heat shock created by using propane flamers as a rescue treatment. 	1	pesticide
25527578	Preliminary studies on the susceptibility level of Ceutorchynhus assimilis (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) to acetamiprid and chlorpyrifos in Poland and resistance mechanisms of the pest to acetamiprid.	The cabbage seed weevil, Ceutorchynhus assimilis (Paykull) (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) is a pest that more and more often causes large financial losses for rapeseed cultivators in Poland and other European countries. One of the reasons of these problems is the resistance of the pest to certain active substances of insecticides. The aim of the study was to assess the susceptibility level of the pest to chlorpyrifos, an organophosphate substance, and acetamiprid, a neonicotinoid, and to determine its enzymatic mechanisms of susceptibility to acetamiprid using synergists, i.e., blockers of particular enzyme groups. The presented research is the first to discuss the mechanisms of the resistance of the cabbage seed weevil to acetamiprid. The achieved results showed medium, high, or very high resistance of the cabbage seed weevil to acetamiprid and its lack of resistance to chlorpyrifos. The research on the mechanisms of the resistance of the pest to acetamiprid revealed the participation of hydrolytic enzymes blocked by S,S,S-tributylphosphorotrithioate and glutathione transferases blocked by diethyl malonate in the metabolism of acetamiprid. The results did not show the participation of oxidative enzymes and esterases blocked by piperonyl butoxide in the detoxification of acetamiprid. 	1	pesticide
25533148	Prevalence of Rickettsiales in ticks removed from the skin of outdoor workers in North Carolina.	"BACKGROUND: Tick-transmitted rickettsial diseases, such as ehrlichiosis and spotted fever rickettsiosis, are significant sources of morbidity and mortality in the southern United States. Because of their exposure in tick-infested woodlands, outdoor workers experience an increased risk of infection with tick-borne pathogens. As part of a double blind randomized-controlled field trial of the effectiveness of permethrin-treated clothing in preventing tick bites, we identified tick species removed from the skin of outdoor workers in North Carolina and tested the ticks for Rickettsiales pathogens. METHODS: Ticks submitted by study participants from April-September 2011 and 2012 were identified to species and life stage, and preliminarily screened for the genus Rickettsia by nested PCR targeting the 17-kDa protein gene. Rickettsia were further identified to species by PCR amplification of 23S-5S intergenic spacer (IGS) fragments combined with reverse line blot hybridization with species-specific probes and through cloning and nucleotide sequence analysis of 23S-5S amplicons. Ticks were examined for Ehrlichia and Anaplasma by nested PCR directed at the gltA, antigen-expressing gene containing a variable number of tandem repeats, 16S rRNA, and groESL genes. RESULTS: The lone star tick (Amblyomma americanum) accounted for 95.0 and 92.9% of ticks submitted in 2011 (n = 423) and 2012 (n = 451), respectively. Specimens of American dog tick (Dermacentor variabilis), Gulf Coast tick (Amblyomma maculatum) and black-legged tick (Ixodes scapularis) were also identified. In both years of our study, 60.9% of ticks tested positive for 17-kDa. ""Candidatus Rickettsia amblyommii"", identified in all four tick species, accounted for 90.2% (416/461) of the 23S-5S-positive samples and 52.9% (416/787) of all samples tested. Nucleotide sequence analysis of Rickettsia-specific 23S-5S IGS, ompA and gltA gene fragments indicated that ticks, principally A. americanum, contained novel species of Rickettsia. Other Rickettsiales, including Ehrlichia ewingii, E. chaffeensis, Ehrlichia sp. (Panola Mountain), and Anaplasma phagocytophilum, were infrequently identified, principally in A. americanum. CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that in North Carolina, the most common rickettsial exposure is to R. amblyommii carried by A. americanum. Other Rickettsiales bacteria, including novel species of Rickettsia, were less frequently detected in A. americanum but are relevant to public health nevertheless."	1	pesticide
25537174	Determination triazine pesticides in cereal samples based on single-hole hollow molecularly imprinted microspheres.	Single-hole hollow molecularly imprinted microspheres (h-MIMs) were prepared by hard template method and applied to extract six triazine pesticides in cereal samples, followed by HPLC-MS/MS detection. The synthesis mechanism of the h-MIMs has been studied. The h-MIMs exhibited bigger specific surface area and much higher binding capacity than the molecularly imprinted polymers prepared by precipitation polymerization (p-MIPs) and surface polymerization (s-MIPs). Besides, the adsorption rate of h-MIMs to prometryn was significantly higher than that of p-MIPs and s-MIPs. Owing to the hollow structure of the h-MIMs, more binding cavities were located on the inner and outer surfaces of the h-MIMs, which could facilitate the removal of template molecules from the polymers and the rebinding of the target molecules to the polymers. Under the optimal conditions, the detection limits of triazines are in the range of 0.08-0.16ngg(-1). At the spiked level (5ngg(-1)), the recoveries of triazines are in the range of 81±4% to 96±4%. The proposed method was successfully applied to determine six triazines in five cereal samples. Atrazine was found in two rice samples and a wheat sample with the contents of 5.1, 6.7 and 5.6ngg(-1), respectively. Ametryn and prometryn were found in a maize sample with the contents of 7.6 and 7.3ngg(-1), respectively. 	1	pesticide
25545233	Association of persistent organic pollutants and non-persistent pesticides with diabetes and diabetes-related health outcomes in Asia: A systematic review.	BACKGROUND: Over half of the people with diabetes in the world live in Asia. Emerging scientific evidence suggests that diabetes is associated with environmental pollutants, exposures that are also abundant in Asia. OBJECTIVE: To systematically review the literature concerning the association of persistent organic pollutants (POPs) and non-persistent pesticides with diabetes and diabetes-related health outcomes in Asia. METHODS: PubMed and Embase were searched to identify studies published up to November 2014. A secondary reference review of all extracted articles and the National Toxicology Program Workshop on the association of POPs with diabetes was also conducted. A total of 19 articles met the inclusion criteria and were evaluated in this review. RESULTS: To date, the evidence relating POPs and non-persistent pesticides with diabetes in Asian populations is equivocal. Positive associations were reported between serum concentrations of polychlorinated dibenzodioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and several organochlorine pesticides (DDT, DDE, oxychlordane, trans-nonachlor, hexachlorobenzene, hexachlorocyclohexane) with diabetes. PCDD/Fs were also associated with blood glucose and insulin resistance, but not beta-cell function. There were substantial limitations of the literature including: most studies were cross-sectional, few studies addressed selection bias and confounding, and most effect estimates had exceptionally wide confidence intervals. Few studies evaluated the effects of organophosphates. CONCLUSIONS: Well-conducted research is urgently needed on these pervasive exposures to inform policies to mitigate the diabetes epidemic in Asia.	1	pesticide
25547077	Five-month comparative efficacy evaluation of three ectoparasiticides against adult cat fleas (Ctenocephalides felis), flea egg hatch and emergence, and adult brown dog ticks (Rhipicephalus sanguineus sensu lato) on dogs housed outdoors.	This study was designed to compare the efficacy of three topical combinations on dogs in outdoor conditions against adult cat fleas (Ctenocephalides felis), flea egg hatch and emergence, and against adult brown dog ticks (Rhipicephalus sanguineus sensu lato). Treatment was performed on day 0 with a placebo; dinotefuran, pyriproxifen and permethrin (DPP); fipronil and (S)-methoprene (FM) or imidacloprid and permethrin (IP). Dogs (n = 32), housed outdoors for 7 months, were treated monthly for four consecutive months (on days 0, 30, 60 and 90) and infested with ~100 unfed adult fleas on days 14, 55, 74, 115 and 150 and with ~50 unfed adult ticks on days 28, 44, 88 and 104. Adult fleas were counted and removed 24 h after infestation. Immediately after flea removal, dogs were reinfested with ~100 new adult fleas 72 h prior to egg collection for up to 48 h. Flea eggs were incubated for 32 days, and newly emerged adults were counted. Ticks were counted and removed 48 h after each infestation. FM had >90 % efficacy against fleas at each time point and variable efficacy against ticks (38.0-99.6 %). Efficacy of IP was <90 % against fleas at day 64 and against ticks at day 30 of the first post-treatment. No flea eggs were laid in the treated groups until infestation was carried out >60 days after the last treatment. Despite challenging weather conditions, DPP was highly effective, providing >90 % efficacy against adult ticks as well as adult and immature fleas at every time point of the study.	1	pesticide
25569846	Interactive effects of ultraviolet-B radiation and pesticide exposure on DNA photo-adduct accumulation and expression of DNA damage and repair genes in Xenopus laevis embryos.	Pesticide use and ultraviolet-B (UVB) radiation have both been suggested to adversely affect amphibians; however, little is known about their interactive effects. One potential adverse interaction could involve pesticide-induced dysregulation of DNA repair pathways, resulting in greater numbers of DNA photo-adducts from UVB exposure. In the present study, we investigated the interactive effects of UVB radiation and two common pesticides (endosulfan and α-cypermethrin) on induction of DNA photo-adducts and expression of DNA damage and repair related genes in African clawed frog (Xenopus laevis) embryos. We examined 13 genes that are, collectively, involved in stress defense, cell cycle arrest, nucleotide excision repair (NER), base excision repair, mismatch repair, DNA repair regulation, and apoptosis. We exposed X. laevis embryos to 0, 25, and 50 μg/L endosulfan or 0, 2.5, and 5.0 μg/L α-cypermethrin for 96 h, with environmentally relevant exposures of UVB radiation during the last 7 h of the 96 h exposure. We measured the amount of cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPDs) and mRNA abundance of the 13 genes among treatments including control, pesticide only, UVB only, and UVB and pesticide co-exposures. Each of the co-exposure scenarios resulted in elevated CPD levels compared to UVB exposure alone, suggesting an inhibitory effect of endosulfan and α-cypermethrin on CPD repair. This is attributed to results indicating that α-cypermethrin and endosulfan reduced mRNA abundance of XPA and HR23B, respectively, to levels that may affect the initial recognition of DNA lesions. In contrast, both pesticides increased transcript abundance of CSA and MUTL. In addition, mRNA abundance of HSP70 and GADD45α were increased by endosulfan and mRNA abundance of XPG was increased by α-cypermethrin. XPC, HR23B, XPG, and GADD45α exhibited elevated mRNA concentrations whereas there was a reduction in MUTL transcript concentrations in UVB-alone treatments. It appeared that even though expression of XPC and CSA were induced by exposure to UVB or pesticides, XPA was the limiting factor in the NER pathway. Our results suggest that pesticides may increase the accumulation of UVB-induced DNA photo-adducts and one likely mechanism is the alteration of critical NER gene expression. The present study provides important implications for evaluating the combined risks of pesticide usage and potentially increasing UVB radiation in aquatic ecosystems.	1	pesticide
25644628	Attenuation of trace organic compounds (TOrCs) in bioelectrochemical systems.	Microbial fuel cells (MFCs) and microbial electrolysis cells (MECs) are two types of microbial bioelectrochemical systems (BESs) that use microorganisms to convert chemical energy in wastewaters into useful energy products such as (bio)electricity (MFC) or hydrogen gas (MEC). These two systems were evaluated for their capacity to attenuate trace organic compounds (TOrCs), commonly found in municipal wastewater, under closed circuit (current generation) and open circuit (no current generation) conditions, using acetate as the carbon source. A biocide was used to evaluate attenuation in terms of biotransformation versus sorption. The difference in attenuation observed before and after addition of the biocide represented biotransformation, while attenuation after addition of a biocide primarily indicated sorption. Attenuation of TOrCs was similar in MFCs and MECs for eight different TOrCs, except for caffeine and trimethoprim where slightly higher attenuation was observed in MECs. Electric current generation did not enhance attenuation of the TOrCs except for caffeine, which showed slightly higher attenuation under closed circuit conditions in both MFCs and MECs. Substantial sorption of the TOrCs occurred to the biofilm-covered electrodes, but no consistent trend could be identified regarding the physico-chemical properties of the TOrCs tested and the extent of sorption. The octanol-water distribution coefficient at pH 7.4 (log DpH 7.4) appeared to be a reasonable predictor for sorption of some of the compounds (carbamazepine, atrazine, tris(2-chloroethyl) phosphate and diphenhydramine) but not for others (N,N-Diethyl-meta-toluamide). Atenolol also showed high levels of sorption despite being the most hydrophilic in the suite of compounds studied (log DpH 7.4 = -1.99). Though BESs do not show any inherent advantages over conventional wastewater treatment, with respect to TOrC removal, overall removals in BESs are similar to that reported for conventional wastewater systems, implying the possibility of using BESs for energy production in wastewater treatment without adversely impacting TOrC attenuations.	1	pesticide
25655324	Oxidative damage of hepatopancreas induced by pollution depresses humoral immunity response in the freshwater crayfish Procambarus clarkii.	Previous studies provide evidences for the possible oxidative damage of toxic environmental pollutants to tissue protein in fish and amphibian, but little information is available about their effects on immunity response in crustacean. In the present study, we evaluated the relationship between oxidative damage and immune response induced by both typical pollutants (viz. copper and beta-cypermethrin), by exposing the freshwater Procambarus clarkii to sub-lethal concentrations (1/40, 1/20, 1/10 and 1/5 of the 96 h LC50) up to 96 h. Five biomarkers of oxidative stress, i.e. reactive oxygen species (ROS), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), malondialdehyde (MDA) and protein carbonyl in hepatopancreas, and two immune factors, i.e. phenoloxidase (PO) and hemocyanin in haemolymph were determined. The results indicated that there was a significant increase (P < 0.05) in the contents of ROS, MDA and protein carbonyl accompanied by markedly decreased (P < 0.05) PO and hemocyanin levels in a dose and time dependent manner. The significant and positive correlation (P < 0.01) between protein carbonyls induction and MDA formation was observed in crayfish hepatopancreas at 96 h. The production of these protein carbonyls could significantly depress (P < 0.01) the levels of phenoloxidase and hemocyanin in hemolymph. Higher contents of ROS enhanced the risk of lipid peroxidation, protein carbonylation and immunosuppression of crayfish, and hepatopancreas might play an important role in immune system of crustaceans. Protein oxidation may be one of the main mechanisms for pollution-induced immunotoxicity in P. clarkii. 	1	pesticide
25655818	Lethal and sublethal effects of thiamethoxam on the whitefly predator Serangium japonicum (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae) through different exposure routes.	Given expectations for a booming usage of thiamethoxam and increasing availability of the promising biological agent Serangium japonicum for the control of Bemisia tabaci in China, an evaluation of their compatibility is crucial for integrated pest management (IPM). This study examined the lethal and sublethal effects of thiamethoxam on S. japonicum through three exposure routes. An acute toxicity bioassay showed that LC50 values of thiamethoxam for S. japonicum through residue contact, egg-dip, and systemic treatment were 6.65, 4.37, and 2.43 mg AI L(-1), respectively. The prey consumption of S. japonicum given different densities of B. tabaci eggs under control, discontinuous, egg-dip and systemic exposure scenarios showed a good fit to a Type II functional response. Predation of S. japonicum was most affected under systemic exposure, followed by egg-dip, and discontinuous, which was only slightly affected. In all cases tested, however, predators recovered their predation capacity rapidly, either after 24h of exposure or 24h after the end of exposure. Thiamethoxam was highly toxic to S. japonicum regardless of exposure routes. Sublethal effects of thiamethoxam applied systemically or foliar both impaired the biological control of S. japonicum on B. tabaci. Therefore, thiamethoxam should be used with caution in IPM of B. tabaci.	1	pesticide
25677172	Development of molecularly imprinted polymeric nanofibers by electrospinning and applications to pesticide adsorption.	Novel polystyrene-based molecularly imprinted polymer nanofibers were synthesized through the electrospinning technique. The molecularly imprinted polymers were prepared using a non-covalent approach and atrazine as template. For comparison, nonimprinted polymer nanofibers were also synthesized. The morphology of the synthesized nanofibers was characterized using scanning electron microscopy. The adsorption of pesticides, atrazine, atrazine desisopropyl, atraton, carboxin, linuron, and chlorpyrifos was studied under equilibrium (batch) conditions. To describe the adsorption capability of the synthesized polymers, Langmuir and Freundlich models were used. The Freundlich model provided a better mathematical approximation of the sorption characteristic for polymers nanofibers. To evaluate the adsorption capacity in the presence of interferents experiments on river water samples spiked with a mixture of six pesticides were also performed. The results obtained for the highest concentration levels investigated, show a greater amount of pesticide adsorbed on molecularly imprinted polymers and non-imprinted polymers compared to those obtained using commercial stationary phases used as reference. 	1	pesticide
25683433	Dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction method based on solidification of floating organic droplet for the determination of triazine herbicides in water and sugarcane samples.	Dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction method based on solidification of floating organic droplet (DLLME-SFO) was developed for the analysis of triazines. As model compounds four selected triazine herbicides namely, simazine, atrazine, secbumeton and cyanazine were employed to estimate the extraction efficiency. The experimental conditions were comprehensively studied for the DLLME-SFO method. Under the use of 10 μL of 1-undecanol as extraction solvent, 100 μL of acetonitrile as disperser solvent and 5% (w/v) NaCl for 3 min the results demonstrated that the repeatability (RSD%) of the optimised DLLME-SFO method ranged from 0.03% to 5.1% and the linearity in the range of 0.01-100 ppb. Low limits of detection (0.037-0.008 ppb), and good enrichment factors (195-322) were obtained. The DLLME-SFO method applied in water and sugarcane samples showed excellent relative recoveries (95.7-116.9%) with RSDs <8.6% (n=3) for all samples.	1	pesticide
25684042	Effects of currently used pesticides and their mixtures on the function of thyroid hormone and aryl hydrocarbon receptor in cell culture.	Evidence suggest that exposure to pesticides can interfere with the endocrine system by multiple mechanisms. The endocrine disrupting potential of currently used pesticides in Denmark was analyzed as single compounds and in an equimolar mixture of 5 selected pesticides. The pesticides were previously analyzed for effects on the function of estrogen and androgen receptors, the aromatase enzyme and steroidogenesis in vitro. In this study, the effect on thyroid hormone (TH) function and aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) transactivity was assessed using GH3 cell proliferation assay (T-screen) and AhR responsive luciferase reporter gene bioassay, respectively. Thirteen pesticides were analyzed as follows: 2-methyl-4-chlorophenoxyacetic acid, terbuthylazine, iodosulfuron-methyl-sodium, mesosulfuron-methyl, metsulfuron-methyl, chlormequat chloride, bitertanol, propiconazole, prothioconazole, mancozeb and its metabolite ethylene thiourea, cypermethrin, tau-fluvalinate, and malathion (currently banned in DK). In the T-screen, prothioconazole, malathion, tau-fluvalinate, cypermethrin, terbuthylazine and mancozeb significantly stimulated and bitertanol and propiconazole slightly reduced the GH3 cell proliferation. In the presence of triiodothyronine (T3), prothioconazole, tau-fluvalinate, propiconazole, cypermethrin and bitertanol significantly antagonized the T3-induced GH3 cell proliferation. Eleven of the tested pesticides agonized the AhR function, and bitertanol and prothioconazole inhibited the basal AhR activity. Bitertanol, propiconazole, prothioconazole and cypermethrin antagonized the TCDD-induced AhR transactivation at the highest tested concentration. The 5-component mixture had inducing effect but the combined effect could not be predicted due to the presence of bitertanol eliciting inhibitory effect. Upon removal of bitertanol from the mixture, the remaining four pesticides acted additively. In conclusion, our data suggest that pesticides currently used in Denmark can interfere with TH signaling and AhR function in vitro and might have the potential to cause endocrine disruption.	1	pesticide
25688713	Golden age of RyR and GABA-R diamide and isoxazoline insecticides: common genesis, serendipity, surprises, selectivity, and safety.	"The serendipitous observation of the insecticidal activity of a candidate herbicide was the first in a series of surprises that changed the course of insecticide research and opened the ""Golden Age of Diamide and Isoxazoline Insecticides"" which have a common genesis. Two novel modes of action were discovered, one involving the γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor of the chloride channel and the other the ryanodine receptor (RyR) of the calcium-activated calcium channel. These are old insecticide targets, but physiological assays and radioligand binding studies reveal that the new diamides and isoxazolines act at previously unrecognized sites without cross-resistance to other chemotypes and more important differing between insects and mammals resulting in selective toxicity and mechanistically based safety. The phthalic diamide flubendiamide and anthranilic diamides chlorantraniliprole and cyantraniliprole act at an allosteric site of the RyR to activate calcium release in insects but not mammals. They are the most important insecticide introductions of the past decade. Isoxazoline and meta-diamide insecticides and their previously unrecognized GABA-R target are more recent discoveries. Isoxazolines are currently important in flea and tick control in dogs and cats, and meta-diamides show promise for pest management and crop protection. These 21st century RyR and GABA-R diamides and isoxazolines were serendipitous discoveries and developments showing the importance of mechanism studies in maintaining the arsenal of safe and effective insecticides. "	1	pesticide
25697579	Food safety in Thailand 1: it is safe to eat watermelon and durian in Thailand.	OBJECTIVES: The wide use of pesticides raises serious concerns regarding food safety and environmental impacts. There is increasing public concern about the potential health risks linked with exposure to pesticides. Regulation of maximum residue limits (MRL) of pesticide residues in food commodities has been established in many developed countries. For developing countries, like Thailand, this regulation often exists in law, but is not completely enforced in practice. Thus, pesticide residue levels in vegetables and fruits have not been thoroughly monitored. The present study aimed to examine potential health risks associated with pesticide exposure by determining the pesticide residues in two commonly consumed fruits, watermelon and durian. METHODS: The fruit samples were purchased from markets in central provinces of Thailand and assayed for the content of 28 pesticides. Analysis of pesticides was performed by multiresidue extraction and followed by GC-MS/MS detection. RESULTS: Of 28 pesticides investigated, 5 were detected in 90.7% of the watermelon samples (n = 75) and 3 in 90% of durian samples (n = 30). Carbofuran, chlorpyrifos, diazinon, dimethoate and metalaxyl were found in watermelons, whereas dichlorvos, dimethoate and metalaxyl were detected in durians. However, their levels were much lower than the recommended MRL values. CONCLUSIONS: These pesticide levels detected in the fruits are unlikely to harm the consumers; therefore it is safe to eat watermelon and durian in Thailand. While our results found negligible risk associated with pesticide exposure from consuming these common tropical fruits, special precautions should be considered to decrease total exposure to these harmful pesticides from various foods.	1	pesticide
25705674	Community structure of ammonia-oxidizing archaea and ammonia-oxidizing bacteria in soil treated with the insecticide imidacloprid.	The purpose of this experiment was to assess the effect of imidacloprid on the community structure of ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) and ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) in soil using the denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) approach. Analysis showed that AOA and AOB community members were affected by the insecticide treatment. However, the calculation of the richness (S) and the Shannon-Wiener index (H) values for soil treated with the field rate (FR) dosage of imidacloprid (1 mg/kg soil) showed no changes in measured indices for the AOA and AOB community members. In turn, the 10∗FR dosage of insecticide (10 mg/kg soil) negatively affected the AOA community, which was confirmed by the decrease of the S and H values in comparison with the values obtained for the control soil. In the case of AOB community, an initial decline followed by the increase of the S and H values was obtained. Imidacloprid decreased the nitrification rate while the ammonification process was stimulated by the addition of imidacloprid. Changes in the community structure of AOA and AOB could be due to an increase in the concentration of N-NH4 (+), known as the most important factor which determines the contribution of these microorganisms to soil nitrification.	1	pesticide
25726027	Risk assessment of pesticide usage by farmers in Commewijne, Suriname, South America: a pilot study for the Alkmaar and Tamanredjo regions.	Limited scientific work is available on pesticide use and exposure in Suriname. Therefore, research was conducted to assess the application, safety practices (use of personal protective equipment (PPEs)), and potential risk of pesticide use by means of a face-to-face questionnaire and determination of the international estimated short-term intake (IESTI)). The amount of pesticide used was compared with the label and the in the European Union (EU) authorized dose. The majority of the farmers was male between 41 and 60 years and followed a primary education only. Less than 5 % of farmers used non-authorized pesticides. Results showed that most farmers (58 up to 100 %) apply a dose, which is within 0-100 % of the regulated dose (label and EU). Good results were obtained for the use of most PPEs. Statistical analysis did not reveal a significant difference between the different age classes, the different levels of education, and the use of PPEs. Pesticide residue analysis of four major crops showed that 22 % of the samples contained pesticides (13 % imidacloprid and 9 % chlorothalonil). The results for imidacloprid were higher than their respective maximum residue levels (MRLs) and were used for calculation of the IESTI. The highest observed IESTI value was 74.5 % of the EU acute reference dose (ARfD), giving rise to concern about pesticide usage. In Suriname, educational programs, good agricultural practices (GAP) training, sustainable agricultural practices, food monitoring studies, and legislative control mechanisms are urgently needed to protect farmer's health and the environment and to ensure food safety.	1	pesticide
25744820	Riparian buffer zones as pesticide filters of no-till crops.	Several studies have pointed to the potential benefits of riparian vegetation as buffer zones for agricultural and industrial pollutants harmful to aquatic ecosystems. However, other studies have called into question its use as an ecological filter, questioning the widths and conditions for which they are effective as a filter. In this work, we have investigated the buffering capacity of the riparian one to retain pesticides in the water-saturated zone, on 27 sites composed by riparian buffer zones with different vegetation structure (woody, shrubs, or grass vegetation) and width (12, 36, and 60 m). Five pesticides were analyzed. The effectiveness of the filtering was largely influenced by the width and vegetation type of the buffer zone. In general, decreasing pesticide removal followed in this order wood > shrubs > grass. The 60 m woody buffer zone was the most effective in the removal of all the pesticides. Only atrazine was detected in this case (0.3 μg L(-1)). Furthermore, a linear correlation (R (2) > 0.97) was observed in their removal for all compounds and buffer zones studied. Thus, preserving the woody vegetation in the riparian zone is important for watershed management and groundwater quality in the no-tillage system in temperate climate.	1	pesticide
25752424	Fipronil induced oxidative stress in kidney and brain of mice: protective effect of vitamin E and vitamin C.	Fipronil is a relatively new insecticide of the phenpyrazole group. Fipronil-induced effects on antioxidant system and oxidative stress biomarkers are yet to be studied in vivo. The present study was undertaken to evaluate fipronil-induced alterations in the blood biochemical markers and tissue antioxidant enzymes after oral exposure in mice and to explore possible protective effect of pre-treatment of antioxidant vitamins against these alterations. Mice were divided into eight groups containing control, test and amelioration groups. Mice in the test groups were exposed to different doses of fipronil, i.e., 2.5, 5 and 10 mg/kg bw, respectively for 28 days. Mice in the amelioration groups were treated with vitamin E or vitamin C (each at 100 mg/kg) 2 h prior to high dose (10 mg/kg) of fipronil. Fipronil exposure at three doses caused significant increase in the blood biochemical markers, lipid peroxidation and prominent histopathological alterations; while level of antioxidant enzymes was severely decreased both in kidney and brain tissues. Prior administration of vitamin E or vitamin C in the fipronil exposed mice led to decrease in lipid peroxidation and significant increase in activities of antioxidants, viz., glutathione, total thiol, superoxide dismutase and catalase. Vitamin E and vitamin C administration in fipronil exposed mice also improved histological architecture of the kidney and brain when compared with fipronil alone treated groups. Thus, results of the present study demonstrated that in vivo fipronil exposure induces oxidative stress and pre-treatment with vitamin E or C can protect mice against this oxidative insult.	1	pesticide
25753920	Identifying the causes of sediment-associated toxicity in urban waterways in South China: incorporating bioavailabillity-based measurements into whole-sediment toxicity identification evaluation.	Sediments in urban waterways of Guangzhou, China, were contaminated by a variety of chemicals and showed prevalent toxicity to benthic organisms. A combination of whole-sediment toxicity identification evaluation (TIE) and bioavailability-based extraction was used to identify the causes of sediment toxicity. Of the 6 sediment samples collected, 4 caused 100% mortality to Chironomus dilutus in 10-d bioassays, and the potential toxicants were assessed using TIE in these sediments after dilution. The results of phase I characterization showed that organic contaminants were the principal contributors to the mortality of the midges in 2 sediments and that metals and organics jointly caused the mortality in the other 2 sediments. Ammonia played no role in the mortality for any samples. Conventional toxic unit analysis in phase II testing identified Cr, Cu, Ni, Pb, and Zn as the toxic metals, with cypermethrin, lambda-cyhalothrin, deltamethrin, and fipronils being the toxic organics. To improve the accuracy of identifying the toxicants, 4-step sequential extraction and Tenax extraction were conducted to analyze the bioavailability of the metals and organics, respectively. Bioavailable toxic unit analysis narrowed the list of toxic contributors, and the putative toxicants included 3 metals (Zn, Ni, and Pb) and 3 pesticides (cypermethrin, lambda-cyhalothrin, and fipronils). Metals contributed to the mortality in all sediments, but sediment dilution reduced the toxicity and confounded the characterization of toxicity contribution from metals in 2 sediments in phase I. Incorporating bioavailability-based measurements into whole-sediment TIE improved the accuracy of identifying the causative toxicants in urban waterways where multiple stressors occurred and contributed to sediment toxicity jointly.	1	pesticide
25794722	Determination of pesticides in lettuce using solid-liquid extraction with low temperature partitioning.	This work describes the optimization and validation of a method employing solid-liquid extraction with low temperature partitioning (SLE/LTP) together with analysis by gas chromatography with electron capture detection (GC/ECD) for the determination of nine pesticides (chlorothalonil, methyl parathion, procymidone, endosulfan, iprodione, λ-cyhalothrin, permethrin, cypermethrin, and deltamethrin) in lettuce. The method was found to be selective, accurate, and precise, with means recovery values in the range of 72.3-103.2%, coefficients of variation ⩽ 12%, and detection limits in the range 0.4-37 μg kg(-1). The matrix components significantly influence the chromatographic response of the analytes (above 10%). The optimized and validated method was applied to determine the residual concentrations of the fungicides iprodione and procymidone that had been applied to field crops of lettuce. The maximum residual concentrations of the pesticides in the lettuce samples were 13.6 ± 0.4 mg kg(-1) (iprodione) and 1.00 ± 0.01 mg kg(-1) (procymidone), on the day after application of the products.	1	pesticide
25822532	Transgenic tobacco simultaneously overexpressing glyphosate N-acetyltransferase and 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase are more resistant to glyphosate than those containing one gene.	5-Enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase (EPSPS) and glyphosate N-acetyltransferase (GAT) can detoxify glyphosate by alleviating the suppression of shikimate pathway. In this study, we obtained transgenic tobacco plants overexpressing AM79 aroA, GAT, and both of them, respectively, to evaluate whether overexpression of both genes could confer transgenic plants with higher glyphosate resistance. The transgenic plants harboring GAT or AM79 aroA, respectively, showed good glyphosate resistance. As expected, the hybrid plants containing both GAT and AM79 aroA exhibited improved glyphosate resistance than the transgenic plants overexpressing only a single gene. When grown on media with high concentration of glyphosate, seedlings containing a single gene were severely inhibited, whereas plants expressing both genes were affected less. When transgenic plants grown in the greenhouse were sprayed with glyphosate, less damage was observed for the plants containing both genes. Metabolomics analysis showed that transgenic plants containing two genes could maintain the metabolism balance better than those containing one gene after glyphosate treatment. Glyphosate treatment did not lead to a huge increase of shikimate contents of tobacco leaves in transgenic plants overexpressing two genes, whereas significant increase of shikimate contents in transgenic plants containing only a single gene was observed. These results demonstrated that pyramiding both aroA and GAT in transgenic plants can enhance glyphosate resistance, and this strategy can be used for the development of transgenic glyphosate-resistant crops. 	1	pesticide
25825129	Toxicity evaluation of new agricultural fungicides in primary cultured cortical neurons.	Fungicides are crucial for food protection as well as for the production of crops of suitable quality and quantity to provide a viable economic return. Like other pesticides, fungicides are widely sprayed on agricultural land, especially in wine-growing areas, from where they can move-off after application. Furthermore, residues of these agrochemicals can remain on crops after harvest and even after some food processing operations, being a major exposure pathway. Although a relatively low toxicity has been claimed for this kind of compounds, information about their neurotoxicity is still scarce. In the present study, nine fungicides recently approved for agricultural uses in the EU - ametoctradin, boscalid, cyazofamid, dimethomorph, fenhexamid, kresoxim-methyl, mepanipyrim, metrafenone and pyraclostrobin - have been evaluated for their toxicity in primary cultured mouse cortical neurons. Exposure to 0.1-100µM for 7 days in vitro resulted in a dose-dependent toxicity in the MTT cell viability assay. Strobilurin fungicides kresoxim-methyl (KR) and pyraclostrobin (PY) were the most neurotoxic compounds (lethal concentration 50 were in the low micromolar and nanomolar levels, respectively) causing a rapid raise in intracellular calcium [Ca(2+)]i and strong depolarization of mitochondrial membrane potential. KR- and PY-induced cell death was reversed by the calcium channels blockers MK-801 and verapamil, suggesting that calcium entry through NMDA receptors and voltage-operated calcium channels are involved in KR- and PY-induced neurotoxicity. These results highlight the need for further evaluation of their neurotoxic effects in vivo. 	1	pesticide
25869961	Expellency, anti-feeding and speed of kill of a dinotefuran-permethrin-pyriproxyfen spot-on (Vectra®3D) in dogs weekly challenged with adult fleas (Ctenocephalides felis) for 1 month-comparison to a spinosad tablet (Comfortis®).	This study was designed to compare the efficacy of two ectoparasiticides against adult fleas on dogs: a topical (DPP, dinotefuran-permethrin-pyriproxyfen) and a systemic (S, spinosad). Dogs (n = 48; 10.21-22.86 kg BW) were allocated to six groups of eight dogs each (C1, C4, DPP1, DPP4, S1, S4). Dogs in the treated groups were administered a topical (3.6 mL of DPP) or a tablet (665 or 1040 mg of S) on day 0. Infestations with 100 unfed fleas (Ctenocephalides felis) occurred on days -6, -1, 2, 7, 14, 21 and 28. An additional untreated group (QC, n = 6) was involved to evaluate the flea-anti-feeding efficacy. These dogs were infested once with 150 fleas prior to combing of at least 50 live fleas from each dog 5 or 10 min after infestation. In the treated group, dislodged dead and moribund fleas were collected from dogs 5, 10, 15 and 60 min (DPP1, S1) or 5, 10, 30 and 240 min (DPP4, S4) post-treatment and subsequent flea infestations on pans placed underneath the cages. Fleas were counted and removed from dogs by combing 1 (C1, DPP1, S1) or 4 h (C4, DPP4, S4) post-treatment and subsequent infestations. Quantitative PCR analysis of the canine cytochrome b gene was conducted on dislodged fleas collected from treated and control (QC) dogs 5 and 10 min after post-treatment infestations. The number of gene copies was used as a marker of blood volume ingested by fleas. Dislodgeability and insecticidal efficacy were calculated using arithmetic means. A rapid onset of killing was observed for DPP with 12.7 % of dead and moribund fleas being dislodged in average from dogs as soon as 5 min after infestation. DPP exhibited a significantly higher and sustained speed of kill than S. The average insecticidal efficacy was 86 ± 8.8 and 95.3 ± 2.1 % with DPP, whereas it was only 33.7 ± 19.9 and 57.6 ± 18.6 % with S at respectively 1 and 4 h after weekly reinfestations. The DPP combination significantly inhibited the feeding of fleas (89 % reduction) up to onset of flea mortality for 1-month post-treatment. 	1	pesticide
25880316	Development of insecticide resistance in malaria vector Anopheles sinensis populations from Shandong province in China.	BACKGROUND: Anopheles sinensis is a major vector of malaria and among the dominant species in Shandong province of China. Insecticide resistance is an important threat to vector-borne disease control. However, there are only few reports about insecticide resistance of An. sinensis populations from Shandong province. METHODS: From 2003 to 2012, six districts in Shandong province were selected as the study areas. Insecticide susceptibility bioassay were tested on F1 progeny of An. sinensis to 4% DDT, 0.05% deltamethrin, 0.15% cyfluthrin, and 5% malathion, using the standard WHO resistance tube assay. RESULTS: The resistance status of An. sinensis showed a significant decrease in the mortality rates in DDT, deltamethrin and cyfluthrin during the past ten years. Whereas obvious increase of mortality to malathion was observed throughout the assay, ranging from 47.37% to 86.62%.	1	pesticide
