pmid	title	abstract
10234476	Pesticide induced changes of nitric oxide synthase in rat brain in vitro.	Organic insecticides are well known neurotoxicants. Nitric oxide (NO) is a neurotransmitter formed stoicheometrically with citrulline from L-arqinine through mediation of the enzyme nitric oxide synthase (NOS). We measured NOS activity in rat brain in vitro in the presence of selected organic insecticides such as, 10-200 microM conc carbaryl, kepone and malathion. All these three compounds inhibited NOS activity of rat brain in vitro in a concentration dependent manner. In most cases the changes observed were statistically significant. The order of potency, based on IC50 values of these insecticides, to inhibit NOS activity of rat brain, is carbaryl (105 microM) > Kepone (144 microM) > malathion (170 microM). We further demonstrated that these insecticides inhibit calmodulin (CaM)-stimulated NOS activity without affecting the basal enzyme activity. It is reported that the observed inhibition of NOS by selected insecticides may be due to interaction of these insecticides with Ca2+/CaM on which the NOS activity is well known to be dependent. This ultimately may lead to neurotoxicity of rat brain.
10369463	Minor structural changes in nicotinoid insecticides confer differential subtype selectivity for mammalian nicotinic acetylcholine receptors.	The major nitroimine insecticide imidacloprid (IMI) and the nicotinic analgesics epibatidine and ABT-594 contain the 6-chloro-3-pyridinyl moiety important for high activity and/or selectivity. ABT-594 has considerable nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) subtype specificity which might carry over to the chloropyridinyl insecticides. This study considers nine IMI analogues for selectivity in binding to immuno-isolated alpha1, alpha3 and alpha7 containing nicotinic AChRs and to purported alpha4beta2 nicotinic AChRs. Alpha1- and alpha3-containing nicotinic AChRs (both immuno-isolated by mAb 35, from Torpedo and human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, respectively) are between two and four times more sensitive to DN-IMI than to (-)-nicotine. With immuno-isolated alpha3 nicotinic AChRs, the tetrahydropyrimidine analogues of IMI with imine or nitromethylene substituents are 3-4 fold less active than (-)-nicotine. The structure-activity profile with alpha3 nicotinic AChRs from binding assays is faithfully reproduced in agonist potency as induction of 86rubidium ion efflux in intact cells. Alpha7-containing nicotinic AChRs of SH-SY5Y cells (immuno-isolated by mAb 306) and rat brain membranes show maximum sensitivity to the tetrahydropyrimidine analogue of IMI with the nitromethylene substituent. The purported alpha4beta2 nicotinic AChRs [mouse (Chao & Casida, 1997) and rat brain] are similar in sensitivity to DN-IMI, the tetrahydropyrimidine nitromethylene and nicotine. The commercial insecticides (IMI, acetamiprid and nitenpyram) have low to moderate potency at the alpha3 and purported alpha4beta2 nicotinic AChRs and are essentially inactive at alpha1 and alpha7 nicotinic AChRs. In conclusion, the toxicity of the analogues and metabolites of nicotinoid insecticides in mammals may involve action at multiple receptor subtypes with selectivity conferred by minor structural changes.
10583056	Evidence for double resistance to permethrin and malathion in head lice.	A rising prevalence of head lice among school children and rising sales of insecticides with anecdotal evidence of their treatment failure, led us to examine whether head lice in Bristol and Bath were resistant to the insecticides available for treating head lice. Ten schools in Bristol and Bath were visited to collect field samples of head lice. A comparison was made of the survival rates of fully sensitive laboratory reared body lice and field samples of head lice on insecticide exposure. To confirm the in vitro relevance of these tests we performed supervised treatments of affected subjects with malathion or permethrin. There were significant differences (P < 10-6 Fishers exact test) between head and body lice survival for malathion and permethrin exposure, but not for carbaryl. There was an 87% failure rate for permethrin and a 64% failure rate for malathion with the topical treatment of a selected number of infested school children. We conclude that there is a high resistance to permethrin and malathion, but head lice remain fully sensitive to carbaryl. This is the first report of doubly resistant head lice. As permethrin, phenothrin (a very similar synthetic pyrethroid) or malathion are the active ingredients in all the over-the-counter head lice treatments in the U.K., then it is likely that head lice prevalence will continue to increase. The resistance against permethrin employed by the head louse is probably the kdr (knockdown resistance) mechanism, and an enzyme-mediated malathion-specific esterase is the likely mechanism against malathion.
15496540	Pesticides and lung cancer risk in the agricultural health study cohort.	The authors examined the relation between 50 widely used agricultural pesticides and lung cancer incidence in the Agricultural Health Study, a prospective cohort study of 57,284 pesticide applicators and 32,333 spouses of farmer applicators with no prior history of lung cancer. Self-administered questionnaires were completed at enrollment (1993-1997). Cancer incidence was determined through population-based cancer registries from enrollment through December 31, 2001. A lung cancer standardized incidence ratio of 0.44 (95% confidence interval: 0.39, 0.49) was observed overall, due in large part to a low cigarette smoking prevalence. Two widely used herbicides, metolachlor and pendimethalin (for low-exposed groups to four higher exposure categories: odds ratio (OR) = 1.0, 1.6, 1.2, 5.0; p(trend) = 0.0002; and OR = 1.0, 1.6, 2.1, 4.4; p(trend) = 0.003, respectively), and two widely used insecticides, chlorpyrifos and diazinon (OR = 1.0, 1.1, 1.7, 1.9; p(trend) = 0.03; and OR = 1.0, 1.6, 2.7, 3.7; p(trend) = 0.04, respectively), showed some evidence of exposure response for lung cancer. These excesses could not be explained by previously identified lung cancer risk factors. The usage levels in this cohort are considerably higher than those typically experienced by the general population. An excess risk among spouses directly exposed to pesticides could not be evaluated at this time.
16452832	Pendimethalin exposure and cancer incidence among pesticide applicators.	Pendimethalin, a widely used herbicide, has been classified as a group C possible human carcinogen by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. We evaluated the incidence of cancer in relation to reported pendimethelin use among pesticide applicators in the Agricultural Health Study, a prospective cohort of licensed pesticide applicators in Iowa and North Carolina.
16704049	Dose-additive inhibition of chinook salmon acetylcholinesterase activity by mixtures of organophosphate and carbamate insecticides.	Organophosphate and carbamate insecticides are widely detected in surface waters of the western United States. These chemicals interfere with acetylcholine-mediated synaptic transmission in the nervous systems of fish and other aquatic animals via the inhibition of AChE (acetylcholinesterase) enzyme activity. Anticholinesterase insecticides commonly co-occur in the environment. This raises the possibility of antagonistic, additive, or synergistic neurotoxicity in exposed fish, including threatened and endangered species of Pacific salmon. We extracted AChE from the olfactory nervous system of chinook salmon (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha) and investigated the inhibitory effects of organophosphates (the oxon derivatives of diazinon, chlorpyrifos, and malathion) and carbamates (carbaryl and carbofuran), alone and in two-way combinations. We found that the joint toxicity of anticholinesterase mixtures can be accurately predicted from the inhibitory potencies of individual chemicals within a mixture. This indicates that organophosphate and carbamate insecticides are noninteractive in terms of AChE inhibition and that it might be possible to estimate the cumulative neurotoxicity of mixtures by simple dose addition. Because organophosphates and carbamates are likely to have additive effects on the neurobehavior of salmon under natural exposure conditions, ecological risk assessments that focus on individual anticholinesterases might underestimate the actual risk to salmon in watersheds in which mixtures of these chemicals occur.
19248625	[The effect of pesticide acetamiprid on biochemical markers in tissues of fresh water bivalve mussels Anodonta cygnea L. (Unionidae)].	The effects of ecological real concentration of pesticide "Mospilan" (active substance - acetamiprid) on the status of oxidative stress biomarkers, neurotoxicity and metallothioneins' (MTs) characteristics of freshwater bivalve mussels Anodonta cygnea were investigated. The prooxidative changes (decrease of superoxide dismutase activity, reduced glutathione content, increase of content of lipid and proteins peroxidation products) and decrease of the MTs content in gills and especially in digestive gland in the experimental group were reflected, whereas acetylcholinesterase activity was not changed. The effect of acetamiprid induces the appearance of additional chromatographic MTs form.
19934164	Time-course, dose-response, and age comparative sensitivity of N-methyl carbamates in rats.	N-Methyl carbamate insecticides are reversible inhibitors of central and peripheral acetylcholinesterase (ChE). Despite their widespread use, there are few studies of neurotoxicity in young animals. To study potential age-related differences, we evaluated seven carbamates (carbaryl, carbofuran, formetanate, methiocarb, methomyl, oxamyl, and propoxur) in preweanling (17 days old or postnatal day [PND] 17) male rats. Motor activity was monitored, and ChE inhibition was measured in brain and red blood cells (RBCs) using a radiometric assay that minimized reactivation of ChE. First, we conducted time-course studies in PND17 Long-Evans male rats, using a single oral dose of each carbamate. Almost all carbamates showed maximal ChE inhibition at a 45-min time point; only methomyl showed an earlier peak effect (15 min). At 24 h, most inhibition had recovered. Next, dose-response data were collected for each carbamate, using four doses and control, with motor activity testing beginning 15 min after dosing and tissue collection at 40-45 min. RBC ChE was generally inhibited to a greater degree than brain. Motor activity was not as sensitive a measure for some of the carbamates, with some differences across carbamates in the shapes of the dose-response curves. Additional studies documented age-related differences by comparing ChE inhibition in PND11, PND17, and adult rats following administration of carbaryl or carbofuran. Only the youngest (PND11) rats were more sensitive than adults to carbaryl, but both younger ages showed more effects than adults with carbofuran. Comparisons of the other carbamates to previous studies in adult rats suggest similar age-related sensitivity. Thus, these data show the time-course and dose-response characteristics for each carbamate and document greater sensitivity of the young for carbofuran and carbaryl.
22361216	Effect of chronic exposure to pendimethalin on the susceptibility of rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss L., to viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus (VHSV).	In this study, the in vivo effects of chronic pollution by the active substance (AS) pendimethalin, a dinitroaniline herbicide, on the susceptibility of rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss L., to an experimental challenge with viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus (VHSV) were assessed. After four weeks of exposure to fresh water (C group) or 500 ng L(-1) of AS (P500 group), the fish were challenged by immersion in water containing 10(4) TCID(50) mL(-1) of VHSV. While exposure to pendimethalin was maintained throughout the experiment, mortalities were recorded during the 40 days post-infection (dpi) and organs were collected from dead fish for virological examination. At the end of the experiment, anti-VHSV antibodies and the classical pathway of complement activity were assessed in trout plasma. Exposure to pendimethalin significantly affected the distribution of cumulative mortality accelerating death in fish infected by VHSV. Pendimethalin appeared to decrease the Mean Time to Death (MTD) after virus treatment from 14.9 days (C-VHSV) to 10.2 days (P500-VHSV). Nevertheless, by the end of the experiment, differences in cumulative mortality were no longer observed between the two groups, which had reached the same stage (50 percent). Furthermore, a higher concentration of the virus was recovered from the pools of organs from the P500-VHSV group than the C-VHSV group. Moreover, at 40 dpi, although no significant difference was observed in the immune response between the two groups, more fish in the P500-VHSV group had set up an immune response by secreting antibodies than in the control viral group (C-VSHV).
22393406	Nicotine-like effects of the neonicotinoid insecticides acetamiprid and imidacloprid on cerebellar neurons from neonatal rats.	Acetamiprid (ACE) and imidacloprid (IMI) belong to a new, widely used class of pesticide, the neonicotinoids. With similar chemical structures to nicotine, neonicotinoids also share agonist activity at nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). Although their toxicities against insects are well established, their precise effects on mammalian nAChRs remain to be elucidated. Because of the importance of nAChRs for mammalian brain function, especially brain development, detailed investigation of the neonicotinoids is needed to protect the health of human children. We aimed to determine the effects of neonicotinoids on the nAChRs of developing mammalian neurons and compare their effects with nicotine, a neurotoxin of brain development.
23423954	Cross-resistance to prosulfocarb and triallate in pyroxasulfone-resistant Lolium rigidum.	Plants can rapidly evolve resistance to herbicide in response to repeated selection. This study focuses on cross-resistance patterns observed in Lolium rigidum following pyroxasulfone recurrent selection.
24183287	Effects of in vivo chronic exposure to pendimethalin on EROD activity and antioxidant defenses in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss).	Pendimethalin, an herbicide active substance frequently used in terrestrial systems, has detected in European aquatic ecosystems. Reliable indicators still need to be found in order to properly assess the impact of pesticides in fish. After an in vivo chronic exposure to pendimethalin, the detoxification process and the antioxidant defense system were assessed in 120 adult rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss. Four nominal exposure conditions were tested: control (C), 500 ng L(-1) (P500), 800 ng L(-1) (P800) and the commercial formulation Prowl(®) at 500 ng L(-1) (Pw500). Fish samples were made after a 28 day exposure period (D28) and after a fifteen day recovery period in clean fresh water (D43). At D28, ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) activity was not activated in liver in spite of the pendimethalin uptake in fish. At D43, EROD activity in fish exposed to the commercial product was lower than in control fish, which may be explained by the high presence of herbicide in fish (613±163 ng g bile(-1)). Furthermore, antioxidant defense responses were set up by trout in gills and liver following chronic exposure to 800 ng L(-1) of pendimethalin concentration. While the glutathione content (GSH) decreased in gills, it increased in liver associated with higher activities of glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and superoxide dismutase (SOD). These disturbances could lead to reactive oxygen species production and oxidative stress in the vital organs in fish. After fifteen days in clean water, while the SOD activity was restored, the GSH content and GPx activity were still significantly disturbed in fish exposed to pendimethalin in comparison with control. These significant differences between treatments in antioxidant defenses parameters measured, attesting to the irreversibility of the effects.
24293324	Physiological and oxidative stress biomarkers in the freshwater monosex Nile tilapia, Oreochromis niloticus L., exposed to pendimethalin-based herbicide.	Fish are relatively sensitive to changes in their surrounding environment, including increasing pollution. Therefore, the present study was undertaken to evaluate the impact of contamination with the pendimethalin-based herbicide; Stomp(®) 50% EC (50% pendimethalin as emulsive concentrate) on adults of the monosex Nile tilapia Oreochromis niloticus L. A total of 260 fish with body weights of 90 ± 5.0 g were used in the determination of the 96-h LC50 value and of the impacts of acute exposure to pendimethalin on physiological parameters, and oxidative stress and antioxidant biomarkers. The 96-h median lethal concentration (96-h LC50 ) value of pendimethalin for monosex Nile tilapia was determined as 4.92 mg/L. Abnormal behavioral responses of the fish and the toxic symptoms of pendimethalin exposure are described. Acute exposure to pendimethalin induced leukocytosis, hyperglobulinemia, and hyperglycemia, but resulted in nonsignificant changes in other hemato-biochemical parameters. Moreover, pendimethalin increased lipid peroxidation (LPO) and decreased levels of reduced glutathione and antioxidant enzymes; superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione reductase in both liver and gill tissues, in a time-dependent manner, with maximum alterations observed in the gills rather than the liver. We conclude that although pendimethalin is moderately toxic, it does not cause hepatorenal toxicity. However, this herbicide pollutant induces major disturbances to the antioxidant system; induction of oxidative stress and LPO is the proposed toxicodynamic pathway for such stress.
26513508	A critical review of neonicotinoid insecticides for developmental neurotoxicity.	A comprehensive review of published and previously unpublished studies was performed to evaluate the neonicotinoid insecticides for evidence of developmental neurotoxicity (DNT). These insecticides have favorable safety profiles, due to their preferential affinity for nicotinic receptor (nAChR) subtypes in insects, poor penetration of the mammalian blood-brain barrier, and low application rates. Nevertheless, examination of this issue is warranted, due to their insecticidal mode of action and potential exposure with agricultural and residential uses. This review identified in vitro, in vivo, and epidemiology studies in the literature and studies performed in rats in accordance with GLP standards and EPA guidelines with imidacloprid, acetamiprid, thiacloprid, clothianidin, thiamethoxam, and dinotefuran, which are all the neonicotinoids currently registered in major markets. For the guideline-based studies, treatment was administered via the diet or gavage to primiparous female rats at three dose levels, plus a vehicle control (≥20/dose level), from gestation day 0 or 6 to lactation day 21. F1 males and females were evaluated using measures of motor activity, acoustic startle response, cognition, brain morphometry, and neuropathology. The principal effects in F1 animals were associated with decreased body weight (delayed sexual maturation, decreased brain weight, and morphometric measurements) and acute toxicity (decreased activity during exposure) at high doses, without neuropathology or impaired cognition. No common effects were identified among the neonicotinoids that were consistent with DNT or the neurodevelopmental effects associated with nicotine. Findings at high doses were associated with evidence of systemic toxicity, which indicates that these insecticides do not selectively affect the developing nervous system.
26535579	Relationship between Urinary N-Desmethyl-Acetamiprid and Typical Symptoms including Neurological Findings: A Prevalence Case-Control Study.	Neonicotinoid insecticides are nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonists used worldwide. Their environmental health effects including neurotoxicity are of concern. We previously determined a metabolite of acetamiprid, N-desmethyl-acetamiprid in the urine of a patient, who exhibited some typical symptoms including neurological findings. We sought to investigate the association between urinary N-desmethyl-acetamiprid and the symptoms by a prevalence case-control study. Spot urine samples were collected from 35 symptomatic patients of unknown origin and 50 non-symptomatic volunteers (non-symptomatic group, NSG, 4-87 year-old). Patients with recent memory loss, finger tremor, and more than five of six symptoms (headache, general fatigue, palpitation/chest pain, abdominal pain, muscle pain/weakness/spasm, and cough) were in the typical symptomatic group (TSG, n = 19, 5-69 year-old); the rest were in the atypical symptomatic group (ASG, n = 16, 5-78 year-old). N-desmethyl-acetamiprid and six neonicotinoids in the urine were quantified by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. The detection of N-desmethyl-acetamiprid was the most frequent and highest in TSG (47.4%, 6.0 ppb (frequency, maximum)), followed by in ASG (12.5%, 4.4 ppb) and in NSG (6.0%, 2.2 ppb), however acetamiprid was not detected. Thiamethoxam was detected in TSG (31.6%, 1.4 ppb), in ASG (6.3%, 1.9 ppb), but not in NSG. Nitenpyram was detected in TSG (10.5%, 1.2 ppb), in ASG (6.3%, not quantified) and in NSG (2.0%, not quantified). Clothianidin was only detected in ASG (6.3%, not quantified), and in NSG (2.0%, 1.6 ppb). Thiacloprid was detected in ASG (6.3%, 0.1 ppb). The cases in TSG with detection of N-desmethyl-acetamiprid and thiamethoxam were aged 5 to 62 years and 13 to 62 years, respectively. Detection of N-desmethyl-acetamiprid was associated with increased prevalence of the symptoms (odds ratio: 14, 95% confidence interval: 3.5-57). Urinary N-desmethyl-acetamiprid can be used as a biomarker for environmental exposure to acetamiprid. Further multi-centered clinical research in larger patients groups with more metabolites analysis is needed.
26990785	Molecular Effects of Neonicotinoids in Honey Bees (Apis mellifera).	Neonicotinoids are implicated in the decline of bee populations. As agonists of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, they disturb acetylcholine receptor signaling leading to neurotoxicity. Several behavioral studies showed the link between neonicotinoid exposure and adverse effects on foraging activity and reproduction. However, molecular effects underlying these effects are poorly understood. Here we elucidated molecular effects at environmental realistic levels of three neonicotinoids and nicotine, and compared laboratory studies to field exposures with acetamiprid. We assessed transcriptional alterations of eight selected genes in caged honey bees exposed to different concentrations of the neonicotinoids acetamiprid, clothianidin, imidacloporid, and thiamethoxam, as well as nicotine. We determined transcripts of several targets, including nicotinic acetylcholine receptor α 1 and α 2 subunit, the multifunctional gene vitellogenin, immune system genes apidaecin and defensin-1, stress-related gene catalase and two genes linked to memory formation, pka and creb. Vitellogenin showed a strong increase upon neonicotinoid exposures in the laboratory and field, while creb and pka transcripts were down-regulated. The induction of vitellogenin suggests adverse effects on foraging activity, whereas creb and pka down-regulation may be implicated in decreased long-term memory formation. Transcriptional alterations occurred at environmental concentrations and provide an explanation for the molecular basis of observed adverse effects of neonicotinoids to bees.
27365127	Exploring the Transition of Human α-Synuclein from Native to the Fibrillar State: Insights into the Pathogenesis of Parkinson's Disease.	The etiology of Parkinson's disease involves the interplay between the environmental and genetic factors. Here in this study human α-synuclein upon exposure to 100 μM pendimethalin for 12 h in vitro passes through a partially folded state which proceeds to the aggregated state and terminally ends in the fibrillar phase. Variations in the ANS fluorescence intensities led to the detection of intermediate and aggregated states at 6 and 10 h respectively. Far-UV CD analysis depicted significant α-helical content for intermediate state at 6 h in presence of 100 μM pendimethalin. Further increasing the incubation time to 12 h resulted in a predominant β-sheet content which was confirmed to be fibrillar by TEM. Turbidity, Rayleigh scattering analysis, Congo red assay and ThT measurements supported the TEM data i.e. the formation of fibrillar structure of human α-synuclein upon 12 h incubation. Thus, our observation could suggest a possible underlying molecular basis for Parkinson's disease. Graphical Abstract Schematic elucidation of the factors involved in the fibrillation of α-Synuclein during Parkinson's pathogenesis.
27375407	In utero and Lactational Exposure to Acetamiprid Induces Abnormalities in Socio-Sexual and Anxiety-Related Behaviors of Male Mice.	Neonicotinoids, a widely used group of pesticides designed to selectively bind to insect nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, were considered relatively safe for mammalian species. However, they have been found to activate vertebrate nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and could be toxic to the mammalian brain. In the present study, we evaluated the developmental neurotoxicity of acetamiprid (ACE), one of the most widely used neonicotinoids, in C57BL/6J mice whose mothers were administered ACE via gavage at doses of either 0 mg/kg (control group), 1.0 mg/kg (low-dose group), or 10.0 mg/kg (high-dose group) from gestational day 6 to lactation day 21. The results of a battery of behavior tests for socio-sexual and anxiety-related behaviors, the numbers of vasopressin-immunoreactive cells in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, and testosterone levels were used as endpoints. In addition, behavioral flexibility in mice was assessed in a group-housed environment using the IntelliCage, a fully automated mouse behavioral analysis system. In adult male mice exposed to ACE at both low and high doses, a significant reduction of anxiety level was found in the light-dark transition test. Males in the low-dose group also showed a significant increase in sexual and aggressive behaviors. In contrast, neither the anxiety levels nor the sexual behaviors of females were altered. No reductions in the testosterone level, the number of vasopressin-immunoreactive cells, or behavioral flexibility were detected in either sex. These results suggest the possibility that in utero and lactational ACE exposure interferes with the development of the neural circuits required for executing socio-sexual and anxiety-related behaviors in male mice specifically.
27384818	Occupational Exposure to Pesticides and the Incidence of Lung Cancer in the Agricultural Health Study.	Occupational pesticide use is associated with lung cancer in some, but not all, epidemiologic studies. In the Agricultural Health Study (AHS), we previously reported positive associations between several pesticides and lung cancer incidence.
28385489	Developmental neurotoxicity of different pesticides in PC-12 cells in vitro.	The detection of developmental neurotoxicity (DNT) of chemicals has high relevance for protection of human health. However, DNT of many pesticides is only little known. Furthermore, validated in vitro systems for assessment of DNT are not well established. Here we employed the rat phaeochromocytoma cell line PC-12 to evaluate DNT of 18 frequently used pesticides of different classes, including neonicotinoids, pyrethroids, organophosphates, organochlorines, as well as quaternary ammonium compounds, the organic compound used in pesticides, piperonyl butoxide, as well as the insect repellent diethyltoluamide (DEET). We determined the outgrowth of neurites in PC-12 cells co-treated with nerve growth factor and different concentrations of biocides for 5days. Furthermore, we determined transcriptional alterations of selected genes that may be associated with DNT, such as camk2α and camk2β, gap-43, neurofilament-h, tubulin-α and tubulin-β. Strong and dose- dependent inhibition of neurite outgrowth was induced by azamethiphos and chlorpyrifos, and dieldrin and heptachlor, which was correlated with up-regulation of gap-43. No or only weak effects on neurite outgrowth and transcriptional alterations occurred for neonicotinoids acetamiprid, clothianidin, imidacloprid and thiamethoxam, the pyrethroids λ-cyhalothrin, cyfluthrin, deltamethrin, and permethrin, the biocidal disinfectants C12-C14-alkyl(ethylbenzyl)dimethylammonium (BAC), benzalkonium chloride and barquat (dimethyl benzyl ammonium chloride), and piperonyl butoxide and DEET. Our study confirms potential developmental neurotoxicity of some pesticides and provides first evidence that azamethiphos has the potential to act as a developmental neurotoxic compound. We also demonstrate that inhibition of neurite outgrowth and transcriptional alterations of gap-43 expression correlate, which suggests the employment of gap-43 expression as a biomarker for detection and initial evaluation of potential DNT of chemicals.
28395332	Acetamiprid inhibits testosterone synthesis by affecting the mitochondrial function and cytoplasmic adenosine triphosphate production in rat Leydig cells.	The insecticide acetamiprid is used to control noxious agricultural pests. However, it can cause mammalian toxicity. We evaluated the reproductive toxicity of acetamiprid in adult male Sprague Dawley rats. Rats were given oral acetamiprid alone or with vitamin E for 35 days. Rat plasma testosterone concentration and sperm quality decreased significantly as the levels of luteinizing hormone (LH) increased after exposure. At the same time, acetamiprid increased malondialdehyde and nitric oxide (NO) levels of Leydig cells. Further analysis showed that acetamiprid reduced the adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) production of Leydig cells, but the expression of luteinizing hormone/choriogonadotropin receptor (LHCGR) and the activity of adenylyl cyclase were not changed. Acetamiprid exposure also significantly diminished protein levels of steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (STAR), hydroxy-delta-5-steroid dehydrogenase, 3 beta- and steroid delta-isomerase cluster (HSD3B), and cytochrome P450, family 11, subfamily a, polypeptide 1 (CYP11A1), and testicular mRNA levels, which are cAMP-dependent proteins that are essential for steroidogenesis. Electron microscopy indicated mitochondrial membrane damage in the Leydig cells of the testes of exposed rats. Vitamin E ameliorated the impairment of acetamiprid on Leydig cells. Our results indicate that acetamiprid causes oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage in Leydig cells and inhibits the synthesis of testicular ATP and cAMP. Acetamiprid disrupts subsequent testosterone biosynthesis by decreasing the rate of conversion of cholesterol to testosterone and by preventing cholesterol from entering the mitochondria within the Leydig cells. These effects caused reproductive damage to the rats.
28980111	Neuroprotective effects of curcumin against acetamiprid-induced neurotoxicity and oxidative stress in the developing male rat cerebellum: biochemical, histological, and behavioral changes.	Curcumin is a molecule found in turmeric root that has anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and anti-tumor properties and has been widely used as both an herbal drug and a food additive to treat or prevent neurodegenerative diseases. This study aimed to investigate the effect of curcumin on neurobehavioral and neuropathological alterations induced by acetamiprid on male rats. Three groups of ten male Wistar rats each were used for the study: the first was a control group (CTR) that did not consume acetamiprid (ACE); the second was an experimental group (ACE) that consumed 40 mg/kg body weight/day of acetamiprid; and the third group (CUR) received curcumin (100 mg/kg) and acetamiprid (40 mg/kg) in combination. Neurobehavioral evaluations including inclined plane performance and forepaw grip time were studied. Treatment with CUR significantly prevented ACE-treated rats from impairments in the performance of neurobehavioral tests, indicating the presence of deficits on sensorimotor and neuromuscular responses. In addition, Curcumin administration protects rats against acetamiprid-induced cerebellum toxicity such as increase in AChE and BChE activities, decrease on cells viability, oxidative stress, and an increase of intracellular calcium. Taken together, these results demonstrate for the first time that ACE treatment substantially impairs the survival of primary neuronal cells through the induction of necrosis concomitantly with the generation of an oxidative stress. Additionally, curcumin reduced histopathological changes caused by ACE.
29091792	Single and joint toxicity assessment of four currently used pesticides to zebrafish (Danio rerio) using traditional and molecular endpoints.	Pesticides usually present in mixtures in surface waters, although they are traditionally regulated on an individual basis in aquatic ecosystems. In this study, we aimed to investigate the lethal and transcriptional responses of individual and combined pesticides (iprodione, pyrimethanil, pyraclostrobin and acetamiprid) on zebrafish (Danio rerio). Semi-static toxicity test indicated that the greatest toxicity to the four life stages (embryonic, larval, juvenile and adult stages) of D. rerio was detected from pyraclostrobin, followed by iprodione and pyrimethanil. In contrast, the lowest toxicity to the organisms was found from acetamiprid. Most of the selected pesticides exerted greater toxicities to D. rerio of embryonic stage compared with other life stages. Synergistic responses were observed from all binary mixtures of iprodione in combination with pyrimethanil or acetamiprid and ternary mixtures of iprodione+pyraclostrobin in combination with pyrimethanil or acetamiprid. The expressions of 16 genes related to cell apoptosis pathway, oxidative stress response, innate immunity and endocrine disruption at the mRNA level showed that zebrafish embryos were affected by the individual or combined pesticides. The expressions of P53, Tnf, TRβ, Tsh and Cyp19a exhibited greater changes upon exposure to combined pesticides compared with individual pesticides. Taken together, increased toxicity might be triggered by the simultaneous presence of several pesticides in the aquatic environment, which seriously damaged the non-target organisms.
29151145	Pendimethalin induces oxidative stress, DNA damage, and mitochondrial dysfunction to trigger apoptosis in human lymphocytes and rat bone-marrow cells.	Pendimethalin (PM) is a dinitroaniline herbicide extensively applied against the annual grasses and broad-leaved weeds. There is no report available on PM-induced low-dose genotoxicity in human primary cells and in vivo test models. Such data gap has prompted us to evaluate the genotoxic potential of PM in human lymphocytes and rats. PM selectively binds in the minor groove of DNA by forming covalent bonds with G and C nitrogenous bases, as well as with the ribose sugar. PM induces micronucleus formation (MN) in human lymphocytes, indicating its clastogenic potential. Comet assay data showed 35.6-fold greater DNA damage in PM (200 μM)-treated human lymphocytes. Rat bone-marrow cells, at the highest dose of 50 mg/kg b w/day of PM also exhibited 10.5-fold greater DNA damage. PM at 200 μM and 50 mg/kg b w/day induces 193.4 and 229% higher reactive oxygen species generation in human lymphocytes and rat bone-marrow cells. PM-treated human lymphocytes and rat bone-marrow cells both showed dysfunction of mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨ <sub>m</sub>). PM exposure results in the appearance of 72.2 and 35.2% sub-G<sub>1</sub> apoptotic peaks in human lymphocytes and rat bone-marrow cells when treated with 200 μM and 50 mg/kg b w/day of PM. Rats exposed to PM also showed imbalance in antioxidant enzymes and histological pathology. Overall, our data demonstrated the genotoxic and apoptotic potentials of PM in human and animal test models.
29168786	Effects of Commonly Used Pesticides in China on the Mitochondria and Ubiquitin-Proteasome System in Parkinson's Disease.	Evidence continues to accumulate that pesticides are the leading candidates of environmental toxins that may contribute to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. The mechanisms, however, remain largely unclear. According to epidemiological studies, we selected nine representative pesticides (paraquat, rotenone, chlorpyrifos, pendimethalin, endosulfan, fenpyroximate, tebufenpyrad, trichlorphon and carbaryl) which are commonly used in China and detected the effects of the pesticides on mitochondria and ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) function. Our results reveal that all the nine studied pesticides induce morphological changes of mitochondria at low concentrations. Paraquat, rotenone, chlorpyrifos, pendimethalin, endosulfan, fenpyroximate and tebufenpyrad induced mitochondria fragmentation. Furthermore, some of them (paraquat, rotenone, chlorpyrifos, fenpyroximate and tebufenpyrad) caused a significant dose-dependent decrease of intracellular ATP. Interestingly, these pesticides which induce mitochondria dysfunction also inhibit 26S and 20S proteasome activity. However, two out of the nine pesticides, namely trichlorphon and carbaryl, were found not to cause mitochondrial fragmentation or functional damage, nor inhibit the activity of the proteasome, which provides significant guidance for selection of pesticides in China. Moreover, our results demonstrate a potential link between inhibition of mitochondria and the UPS, and pesticide-induced Parkinsonism.
29374591	In vitro genotoxicity assessment of dinitroaniline herbicides pendimethalin and trifluralin.	Pendimethalin and trifluralin are widely used dinitroaniline herbicides. Both compounds can be found as residue levels in agricultural products. This study was conducted in order to provide necessary information for the risk assessment of pendimethalin and trifluralin. In this study, reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were measured to examine the potential of both compounds to induce oxidative damage in Chinese hamster lung fibroblast (V79) cells. Also, the genotoxic effects of pendimethalin and trifluralin at the concentration range of 1-500 μM was determined. Single cell gel electrophoresis (comet) and micronucleus assays were used on human peripheral lymphocytes and V79 cells for the genotoxicity assessment. The cell viability of two dinitroaniline herbicides were determined by the use of neutral red uptake assay on V79 cells. IC<sub>50</sub> values were determined as 66 μM and 128 μM for pendimethalin and trifluralin, respectively. They significantly increased ROS levels on V79 cells for 1-24 h. Both herbicides significantly induced the DNA damage and showed genotoxicity on lymphocytes and V79 cells. Micronucleus frequency increased significantly after pendimethalin and trifluralin treatment of the lymphocytes and V79 cells. Therefore, we concluded that both of the herbicides induced the genotoxicity through the activation of oxidative stress pathway and chromosomal damage.
29591886	Investigation of the genotoxic and cytotoxic effects of widely used neonicotinoid insecticides in HepG2 and SH-SY5Y cells.	Neonicotinoids are a relatively new type of insecticide to control a variety of pests. Although they are generally considered to be safe, they can lead to harmful effects on human and environmental health. We aimed to investigate possible effects of common neonicotinoid insecticides (acetamiprid, clothianidin, imidacloprid, thiacloprid, and thiamethoxam) on cytotoxicity and DNA damage in human neuroblastoma (SH-SY5Y) and human hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) cells. Our results indicated that 50% of inhibitory concentration values of neonicotinoids are in the range of 0.96 to >4 mM in SH-SY5Y cells and 0.53 to >4 mM in HepG2 cells by the methyl tetrazolium and neutral red uptake tests after 24 and 48 h exposure. We observed significant DNA damage at 500 µM of five neonicotinoids in SHSY-5Y cells, while only imidacloprid, thiametoxam, and thiacloprid showed some alterations in HepG2 cells after 24 h exposure using the alkaline comet assay. In conclusion, neonicotinoid insecticides may induce cytotoxicity and DNA damage in cell cultures; therefore, further studies are needed to better understand the toxicity of neonicotinoids.
29933130	Evaluation of acetamiprid-induced genotoxic and oxidative responses in Eisenia fetida.	As a novel neonicotinoids insecticide, acetamiprid has been widely used worldwide. In this study, a laboratory test was conducted to expose earthworms (Eisenia fetida) to artificial soil spiked with various concentrations of acetamiprid (0, 0.05, 0.10, 0.25 and 0.50 mg/kg of soil) respectively after 7, 14, 21 and 28 d. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, antioxidant enzymes activity including superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and glutathione S-transferases (GST), malondialdehyde (MDA) content, and DNA damage were determined in earthworms. The ROS level increased in varying degrees at most exposure concentrations. The SOD activity was not significantly affected. The CAT activity was increased in the beginning, then gradually suppressed and resumed to the control level at the end, with the maximum change (171%) occurred at 14 d for 0.05 mg/kg. The GST activity was induced at 7 d, and then inhibited, with the maximum change (67.6%) occurred at 14 d for 0.50 mg/kg. The MDA content had a tendency that increasing at the first and decreasing at the end. The olive tail moment (OTM) in comet assay reflected a dose-dependent relationship, and DNA damage initially increased and then decreased over time. The results suggest that the sub-chronic exposure of acetamiprid can cause oxidative stress and DNA damage of earthworm and change the activity of the anti-oxidant enzyme. In addition, ROS content and DNA damage can be good indicators for assessing environmental risks of acetamiprid in earthworms.
29982916	Antioxidant activities of Moringa oleifera leaf extract against pendimethalin-induced oxidative stress and genotoxicity in Nile tilapia, Oreochromis niloticus (L.).	To assess the ameliorative effects of Moringa oleifera (MO) leaf extract on haematological and biochemical changes, liver DNA damage and oxidative stress biomarkers in Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) exposed to a sublethal concentration (0.52 mg/l) of pendimethalin (PM). Tilapia fish were allocated into four equal groups in tri-replicates as follows: first group was the control group, second group was treated with MO (20 ml/30 l water), third group was exposed to 0.52 mg PM/l and fourth group was exposed to 0.52 mg PM/l and treated with MO leaf extract (20 ml/30 l water) for 28 days. At the end of this period, blood and liver tissue samples were collected and haematological and biochemical changes, hepatic DNA fragmentation and oxidative stress biomarkers were analysed. Pendimethalin caused significant reduction in haematological profile [White blood cells (WBCs) and red blood cells (RBCs) counts, haemoglobin (Hb) concentration and haematocrit (Ht) level]; meanwhile, serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), creatinine, uric acid, glucose, cortisol, cholesterol and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) were significantly increased. On the other hand, serum total protein, albumin, globulin and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) were decreased. Significant reduction in hepatic superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), total antioxidant capacity (TAC) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) levels and marked increments of hepatic malondialdehyde (MDA) and DNA fragmentation were observed in PM-exposed fish compared to the control group. The addition of Moringa oleifera leaf extract into the water could overcome the negative impacts of pendimethalin and normalise the examined parameters nearly to the control values. Moringa oleifera was used for the first time to protect tilapia fish against PM-induced toxicity. The present study revealed that Moringa oleifera has potent antioxidant and antigenotoxic actions against pendimethalin toxicity.
30025381	Transchem project - Part II: Transgenerational effects of long-term exposure to pendimethalin at environmental concentrations on the early development and viral pathogen susceptibility of rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss).	In the Transchem project, rainbow trout genitors were exposed to environmental concentrations of pendimethalin over a period of 18 months and two new first generations of offspring, F1_2013 and F1_2014, were obtained. We investigated the impact of direct chemical exposure on juveniles as well as the potential cumulative transgenerational and direct effects on the larval development and on the pathogen susceptibility of offspring. Depending on the chemical treatment or not of the adults, their offspring were distributed in the tanks of our experimental system, in two batches i.e. juveniles from the control genitors (G-) and others from the contaminated ones (G+), and then, half of the tanks were exposed daily to pendimethalin (Off+) while the others were used as controls (Off-). Viral challenges were performed on the offspring, before and after three months of direct chemical exposure, with strains of infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus (IHNV), viral haemorrhagic septicemia virus (VHSV) and sleeping disease alphavirus (SDV). Direct and transgenerational macroscopic effects were observed on offspring, with a percentage of abnormalities in offspring derived from the genitors exposed to pendimethalin (G+) significantly higher compared to those from the genitors from non-exposed group (G-). Before the direct chemical exposure, similar kinetics of mortality was observed between the offspring from the contaminated or control genitors after VHSV infection. With IHNV, the G+ group died in a slightly larger proportion compared to the G- group and seroconversion was greater for the G- group. For the SDV challenge, the mortality was delayed for the G+ offspring compared to the G- and seroconversion reached 65% in the G+ group compared to 45% in the G-, with similar antibody titres. After three months of direct chemical exposure, kinetics of mortality induced by IHNV infection were similar for all groups studied. Infection with SDV resulted in a cumulative mortality of 40% for the G- groups (Off- and Off+), significantly higher than those observed from the contaminated genitors G+. Proportion of seropositivity for SDV varied from 24 to 47% depending on the group, with very low quantities of secreted antibodies. Lastly, the direct exposure of offspring could impact the capacity of fish to adapt their haematological parameters to environmental and physiological changes, and underlines the potential toxic effects on the next generations.
30047162	Neurodevelopmental toxicity in the mouse neocortex following prenatal exposure to acetamiprid.	Acetamiprid (ACE) belongs to a widely used class of pesticides known as neonicotinoids. ACE binds selectively to insect nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and was previously considered relatively safe in mammalian species; however, recent studies have demonstrated ACE-mediated toxicity related to vertebrate nicotinic acetylcholine receptor activation. The potential for neurotoxicity following exposure to ACE in utero is unknown. Therefore, we evaluated the effects of repeated prenatal ACE exposure (5 mg/kg, oral doses administered to pregnant dams) on neurogenesis, neuronal distribution and microglial activation in the dorsal telencephalon on embryonic day (E)14 and in the neocortex on postnatal day 14. Immunohistochemical and morphological analyses on E14 revealed hypoplasia of the cortical plate and decreased neurogenesis in mice exposed to ACE from E6 to E13, whereas newborn ACE-exposed mice showed an abnormal neuronal distribution in the neocortex. Additionally, ACE-exposed mice showed increased numbers of Iba1-immunoreactive and amoeboid-type microglia as well as an increased M1/M2 microglial ratio. These findings suggest that prenatal ACE exposure induces neurodevelopmental toxicity and increases microglial activation in the developing brain.
3037439	Delayed neurotoxicity after ingestion of carbamate pesticide.	We studied a patient who ingested 27 gm (500 mg/kg) of carbaryl (1-naphthyl N-methylcarbamate), a popular carbamate pesticide. After he recovered from acute cholinergic toxicity, acute weakness of arms and legs was accompanied by electrophysiologic findings consistent with axonal peripheral neuropathy. Recovery began at 1 week and continued for 9 months. A similar delayed neuropathy has been described with organophosphates but not with carbamate insecticides.
30419375	Study on neurotoxicity of dinotefuran, thiamethoxam and imidacloprid against Chinese lizards (Eremias argus).	The neurotoxicity of dinotefuran, thiamethoxam and imidacloprid against Chinese lizards (Eremias argus) were evaluated in acute oral exposure and 28d subchronic exposure. Dinotefuran was not easily metabolized and showed strong persistence in the lizard brain. Thiamethoxam and imidacloprid were rapidly absorbed and excreted in lizards, and were not easily enriched in the lizard brain. Dinotefuran and thiamethoxam could directly increase the concentrations of acetylcholine in the brain and blood by up-regulating the expression of the ach gene, which in turn enhanced the binding of acetylcholine and acetylcholinesterase receptors, eventually causing the release of dopamine. The effect of dinotefuran was more pronounced than thiamethoxam. Clothianidin was a major metabolite of thiamethoxam in the brain and aggravated the neurotoxic effects of thiamethoxam. Imidacloprid desnitro olefin was the only metabolite of imidacloprid that enriched in the brain. The protonation effect of imidacloprid desnitro olefin was stronger than that of the parent imidacloprid, which increased its binding ability to lizard acetylcholinesterase receptors. Competitive inhibition of imidacloprid desnitro olefin and acetylcholine led to the down-regulation of ach gene expression. Although neonicotinoids caused the opening of ligand-gated ion channel through the activation of acetylcholinesterase receptors, the body would alleviate these effects by the inhibition of voltage-dependent channel activity for compensatory mechanisms. This study provided a new perspective on the neotoxic effects of neonicotinoids.
30459330	Pendimethalin-induced oxidative stress, DNA damage and activation of anti-inflammatory and apoptotic markers in male rats.	Male Wistar rats were exposed to herbicide, pendimethalin (PND) at varying oral doses of 62.5, 125 and 250 mg/kg b.w. for 14 days. Toxiological effects were assessed in terms of oxidative stress, DNA damage, histopathological alterations and induction of anti-inflammatory and apoptotic responses linked Bax, Bcl-2, IFN-γ, TNF-α and caspase-3 gene expression. In comparison with respective untreated controls, all exposure groups of PND exhibited significant changes in the oxidative stress markers (protein carbonylation and lipid peroxidation) and antioxidant defenses (GSH, SOD, CAT and GST) in liver and kidney tissues. The histopathological changes including leucocyte infiltration, pyknotic nuclei, necrosis, large bowman's space, shrinked renal cortex, were observed in the liver and kidney tissues of PND exposed rats. Significant DNA damage was recorded through comet assay in liver and kidney cells of treated animals as compared to control. Alteration in anti-inflammatory and apoptotic genes expression determined by RT-PCR, revealed the activation of intrinsic apoptotic pathway(s) under the PND induced cellular stress. A pronounced increase in Bax expression, caspase-3 activities and decreased Bcl-2 expressions were also associated with PND-induced apoptosis. Data from this study suggests that PND induces cellular toxicity and genetic perturbations which can alter the normal cellular and physiological functioning in rats.
3083676	Subacute neurotoxicity following long-term exposure to carbaryl.	Carbaryl, a widely used insecticide, is reputed to have a wide safety margin. It can induce acute cholinesterase poisoning, which is rapidly reversible on discontinuation of exposure. Long-term sequelae from long-term exposure have not previously been described in humans. This report describes the experience of a 75-year-old man who had long-term excessive exposure to carbaryl and in whom a debilitating syndrome, including headaches, memory loss, proximal muscle weakness, muscle fasciculation, muscle cramps, and anorexia with marked weight loss, developed. At the time of diagnosis, serum pseudocholinesterase levels were low, and his major symptoms resolved on termination of exposure. Late clinical features were sleep apnea and progressive development of a peripheral neuropathy. The difficulty in diagnosing the cause of a group of relatively nonspecific symptoms raises the question of whether chronic carbaryl neurotoxicity might be occurring more frequently than previously suspected.
31266377	Comparative acute toxicity of two phytosanitary molecules, lambda-cyhalothrin and acetamiprid, on Nile Tilapia (<i>Oreochromis Niloticus</i>) juveniles.	This study aimed to compare the toxicity for fish of two active ingredients (lambda-cyhalothrin-20 g L<sup>-1</sup>, a pyrethroid, and acetamiprid-15 g L<sup>-1</sup>, a neonicotinoid) which are components of a commercial insecticide (Acer 35 EC) used in cotton crop in many West African countries. The juveniles of <i>Oreochromis niloticus</i> (4.01 ± 0.34 g, mean body weight) were exposed for 96 h to increasing concentrations of active ingredients (lambda-cyhalothrin and acetamiprid) or a mixture similar to Acer 35 EC (composed by 20 g of chemical compound lambda-cyhalothrin and 15 g of acetamiprid dissolved in 1 L of acetone). The experiments were carried out under controlled conditions in aquaria according to OECD Guidelines. During the experiments, the behavioral responses (loss of balance, color change, hyperactivity, etc.) that usually precede death were observed in exposed fish. Mortalities were recorded in each aquarium and the LC<sub>50</sub>-96h of each chemical was determined. The LC<sub>50</sub>-96h obtained were respectively 0.1268, 0.0029, 182.9 and 0.5685 ppm for Acer 35 EC, lambda-cyhalothrin, acetamiprid and mixture. All insecticides used in this study had profound impact on Nile tilapia behavior which may confirm the neurotoxicity of each single active compound as well as of their mixture.
31891846	Neonicotinoid insecticides exposure cause amino acid metabolism disorders, lipid accumulation and oxidative stress in ICR mice.	Neonicotinoids are increasingly being used for pest control, and their potential health risks are now receiving attention. In this study, the toxic effects of three neonicotinoids (dinotefuran, nitenpyram and acetamiprid) were evaluated in ICR mice. After 30 days of exposure to neonicotinoids (1/200 LD50), oxidative stress levels, biochemical parameters, free fatty acids contents, and <sup>1</sup>H NMR-based hepatic metabolomics were tested. All treatment groups showed signs of amino acid metabolism disorders especially elevated branched chain amino acids and phenylalanine. Furthermore, animals exposed to neonicotinoids had elevated lipid levels, which induced oxidative stress. Overall, we found that oxidative stress is a common toxic effect of exposure to neonicotinoids. In addition, lipid accumulation induced by amino acid metabolism disorder may be the cause of oxidative stress. Our results further our understanding of the toxicological effects of neonicotinoids on mammals.
31916150	Protective effects of melatonin and vitamin E in acetamiprid-induced nephrotoxicity.	Investigation of probable toxic effects of acetamiprid (ACMP) on kidney and comparative analysis of the probable protective effects of vitamin E and melatonin were conducted in the present study. The ethics committee approval was obtained from Inonu University Medical Faculty Ethics Committee. Fifty Balb-c mice were randomly assigned to control, corn oil, ethyl alcohol, ACMP, ACMP + melatonin, ACMP + vitamin E, and ACMP + melatonin + vitamin E groups. At the end of the experiments, rat kidney tissues were incised under anesthesia. Blood samples and kidney tissues were examined. After 21 days of ACMP administration, it was observed that malondialdehyde (MDA), total oxidant status (TOS), BUN, creatinine, IL-6, IL-1β, and TNF-α levels, histopathological damage, and Caspase-3 immunoreactivity scores increased, and glutathione (GSH), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and total antioxidant status (TAS) levels decreased, and histopathological damages were observed. Melatonin and vitamin E administration led to improvements in oxidative stress parameters, renal functions, inflammatory markers, and histopathological findings. ACMP administration led to nephrotoxicity in rat kidney tissues. Although melatonin and vitamin E administrations were effective on ACMP nephrotoxicity separately, co-administration of both was quite effective. Concomitant use of melatonin and vitamin E could be effective on prevention of toxicity.
31935421	Trophoblast toxicity of the neonicotinoid insecticide acetamiprid and an acetamiprid-based formulation.	The neonicotinoid (Neo) insecticide family is a relatively new class of pesticides of growing use. There is an increasing concern that human exposure to environmental pollutants in utero may be associated with diseases in adulthood. A functional placenta and trophoblasts are a requisite for a healthy pregnancy. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the Neo Acetamiprid (Ace) and one of its commercial formulations (Ace CF) display toxic features to a human first trimester trophoblast cell line. HTR-8/SVneo cells were cultured in the presence of Ace or Ace CF (0.1-100 μM) for 4 and 24 h, and changes in cell viability, reactive oxygen species, antioxidant system and macromolecule damage levels were evaluated. Ace and Ace CF are cytotoxic for HTR-8/SVneo trophoblasts. Cell viability loss and oxidative imbalance were triggered by Ace and Ace CF treatments. Impact in the antioxidant enzymes catalase, superoxide dismutase and gluthatione S-transferase activities were observed after 24 h exposure to Ace CF. Moreover, Ace CF caused oxidative damage in proteins, lipids and DNA, whereas Ace only damaged proteins. To test oxidative stress as a toxicity mechanism, cells were pre-incubated with the antioxidant N-acetyl-l-cysteine (NAC), prior Neo treatment. NAC protected trophoblasts from cell death and prevented oxidative damage. Results demonstrate that Ace (as active principle or CF) is cytotoxic for human trophoblasts, and oxidative stress is a toxicity mechanism. Ace CF exhibited a more toxic effect than the active principle, in an identical exposure scenario.
32396780	Joint toxicity of two phytosanitary molecules, lambda-cyhalothrin and acetamiprid, on African catfish (<i>Clarias gariepinus</i>) juveniles.	This study was designed to evaluate the acute toxicity of acetamiprid (neonicotinoid) and lambda-cyhalothrin (pyrethroid), individually and mixtures (Act-LCh mixture and Acer 35 EC®, 15 g/L of acetamiprid and 20 g/L of lambda-cyhalothrin) in African catfish juveniles (3.35 ± 0.75 g). The tests were conducted in the laboratory under semi-static conditions according to OECD Guideline 203. Mixture toxicity effects as a function of lethal concentrations were assessed using the additive index (AI) method. Acetamiprid with 96 h-LC<sub>50</sub> = 265.7 ppm can be considered to be nontoxic for this species. However, lambda-cyhalothrin was highly toxic to <i>C. gariepinus</i> with 96 h-LC<sub>50</sub> = 0.00083 ppm. Acer 35 EC<sup>®</sup> was less toxic (96 h-LC<sub>50</sub> = 0.21 ppm) than the Act-LCh mixture (96 h-LC<sub>50</sub> = 0.043 ppm). Marked changes indicating nervous system damage were also recorded. An antagonistic effect was shown for lethal concentrations leading to 5 to 15% mortality in 96 hours (96 h-LC<sub>5-15</sub>) while an additive effect was obtained for the 96 h-LC<sub>20-50</sub>. The results indicate that ecological risk assessment of these molecules in aquatic environments should consider their contamination levels. Moreover, particular attention to behavior changes related to their neurotoxicity is recommended for additional monitoring of the negative effects of these insecticides.
32443284	Does pendimethalin develop in pancreatic cancer induced inflammation?	Pendimethalin, one of the dinitroaniline group herbicides, is applied for controlling weeds in cereals, legumes and vegetable crops, and has been classified as possible human carcinogen. It is indicated that pendimethalin should arise risks of developing some cancer types; however, there is no data on the effects of pendimethalin on pancreatic cancer-induced inflammation. Injuries resulting from by acute pancreatitis attacks and inflammation are significant factors in the development of pancreatic cancer. Therefore, we investigated whether pendimethalin triggers inflammation as a mechanism of pancreatic cancer development. Parameters related to pancreatic activation, oxidative stress, and inflammation were measured in the human pancreatic (PANC-1) cell line. In the range of 0-100 μM, the levels of chymotrypsin decreased. It should be indicated that the reason for the decrease in chymotrypsin may be the high rates of cell death (20%) observed in the high concentration levels. We observed that pendimethalin significantly induced oxidative damage, while levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-8 (IL-8) did not change. The obtained results may draw attention to the usage and possible toxic effect of pendimethalin due to oxidative damage induction; however, detailed inflammation mechanisms and other cancer pathways should be investigated.
32454683	The Apoptotic and Anti-apoptotic Effects of Pendimethalin and Trifluralin on A549 Cells <i>In Vitro</i>.	Pendimethalin and trifluralin are commonly used in many countries to control broadleaf weeds and grassy weed species because of their inhibitor effects on growth and cell division. In this study, we examined the apoptotic and anti-apoptotic potentials of pendimethalin and trifluralin on A549 human non-small lung cancer cells with several concentrations <i>in vitro</i>.
32515618	Evaluation of genotoxicity induced by herbicide pendimethalin in fresh water fish <i>Clarias batrachus</i> (linn.) and possible role of oxidative stress in induced DNA damage.	The present study was carried out in fish <i>Clarias batrachus</i> to evaluate the genotoxicity induced by herbicide pendimethalin and to find out the role of oxidative stress in induced DNA damage. The LC<sub>50</sub> value (96 h) of pendimethalin was determined (3.55 mg/L) and based on this, sub lethal test concentrations were calculated as SL-I (1/20th LC<sub>50</sub>), SLII (1/15th LC<sub>50</sub>) and SL-III (1/10th LC<sub>50</sub>) to which fish were exposed for 30, 45 and 60 days. Maximum DNA damage was observed in fish exposed to highest concentration of herbicide and for a particular concentration maximum damage occurs after 30 days then a time dependent decrease was observed. After 30 days the SOD and CAT activity was found to be significantly increased with respect to the control group while it was significantly decreased after 45 and 60 days as compared to 30 days of exposure. Level of lipid peroxidation in pendimethalin exposed fish followed the same pattern. GR activity remained same for all duration of herbicide exposure. The DNA damage is due to ROS generated by the metabolism of herbicide which is evident by alteration in LPO and anti-oxidant enzyme activities accompanied by incidence of DNA damage in a similar way. It can also be concluded that for pendimethalin genotoxicity testing <i>C. batrachus</i> can be used as model organism and comet assay and micronucleus test as effective tools.
32638493	Loss of trifluralin metabolic resistance in Lolium rigidum plants exposed to prosulfocarb recurrent selection.	Resistance to the dinitroaniline herbicide trifluralin in Lolium rigidum (annual ryegrass) often is mediated by the enhanced capacity to metabolize the herbicide to less toxic polar conjugates and/or by functionally recessive target-site mutations in α-tubulin.
32738377	Assessing the combined toxicity effects of three neonicotinoid pesticide mixtures on human neuroblastoma SK-N-SH and lepidopteran Sf-9 cells.	Neonicotinoid insecticides have been widely used in plant protection against pests worldwide. Generally, more than one neonicotinoids are detected in plants and foods, and such mixtures may show combined toxicity and increase the risk for both insects and higher organisms. In this study, the combined toxicity of imidacloprid (IM), acetamiprid (AC) and thiamethoxam (TH) was investigated using human neuroblastoma cell line (SK-N-SH) and lepidopteran cell line (Sf-9). Results showed that binary and ternary mixtures could enhance the inhibition of growth of both SK-N-SH and Sf-9 cells at low doses. In SK-N-SH cells, based on CompuSyn software analysis, all the mixtures of IM+AC, IM+TH, AC+TH and IM+AC+TH showed synergistic effects at concentrations < 50 mg/L, but IM+AC, IM+TH showed antagonistic effects at higher concentrations. For Sf-9 cells, all mixtures revealed synergistic effects at low concentrations (< 0.1 mg/L) except IM+AC, showing antagonism at higher concentrations (> 0.5 mg/L). The toxicity thresholds of mixtures denoted by BMDL<sub>10</sub> values were all lower than those for single pesticides and the combined BMDL<sub>10</sub> value of AC+TH was the lowest one. It is concluded that the co-occurrence of several neonicotinoid insecticides may enhance their toxicity and aggravate the health risk for both insects and human.
32816635	Pesticide exposure and risk of cardiovascular disease: A systematic review.	The increase in pesticide consumption has a negative health impact. Studies point to an association between exposure to pesticides and cardiovascular disease (CVD), one of the leading causes of world mortality. This review synthesize evidence on the association between occupational exposure and environmental contamination by pesticides with CVDs from 1750 references databases (EBSCO, Medline, Science Direct, Scielo, Lilacs and Ovid) without date or language restriction. Selected 24 articles by PRISMA and Downs & Black methodologies, were included from inclusion criteria: original studies (case-control, cohort or cross-sectional design); clear CVD definition and exposure to pesticides; representative sample of the target population. The results show the occupational exposure to pesticides chlorpyrifos, coumafos, carbofuran, ethylene bromide, mancozeb, ziram, metalaxyl, pendimethalin and trifluralin was associated a risk of 1.8 to 3.2 for acute myocardial infarction. Primaphos, fenitrothion, malathion and deltamethrin pesticides were associated with a blood pressure increase. Environmental contamination by tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin was associated with CVD with risk of 1.09 to 2.78 and organochlorine, 1.19 to 4.54; heavy metals, arsenic, trimethylarsine and dimethylarsinic acid with atherosclerosis and systemic arterial hypertension. These findings point to the association between exposure to pesticides and CVD, signaling the importance of greater rigor in the public policy related to pesticides.
33268085	Chronic effects of a binary insecticide Acer 35 EC on Nile tilapia Oreochromis niloticus through a multi-biomarker approach.	Acer 35 EC is a widely used insecticide (a binary mixture of lambda-cyhalothrin and acetamiprid) in pest control in many West African countries, particularly in the cotton culture in north Benin. The aim of this study was to investigate the chronic effects of Acer 35 EC on Nile tilapia Oreochromis niloticus juveniles using a multi-biomarker approach under laboratory conditions. For this purpose, fish were exposed to sublethal concentrations of Acer 35 EC (0, 1 and 10% of LC<sub>50</sub>- 96 h value). After 28 and 56 days of exposure, several biomarkers were measured in males and females including enzymatic activities related to detoxification and oxidative stress, neurotoxicity and immune responses, sex steroid hormones (testosterone, 17β-estradiol and 11-keto-testosterone) and histological alterations of liver, kidney and gonads. An Integrated Biomarker Response (IBR) was then calculated. The results showed a reduction of cholinesterase activity in muscles, and intercellular superoxide anion production in both sexes. Female steroidogenesis and gametogenesis were affected, especially testosterone levels and oocyte growth. More alterations were observed in liver after exposure to Acer 35 EC. In both sexes, IBR values were higher after 56 days than after 28 days of exposure. In conclusion, based on a large set of biomarkers and IBR values, the chronic exposure to low doses of insecticide Acer 35 EC seems to impair different physiological functions in Nile tilapia juveniles on a time-dependent manner, with a stronger impact on females than on males.
33288284	Acute neurotoxicity evaluation of two anticholinesterasic insecticides, independently and in mixtures, and a neonicotinoid on a freshwater gastropod.	Neurotoxic insecticides are ubiquitous in aquatic ecosystems, frequently as part of complex mixtures. Freshwater gastropods are generally underrepresented in neurotoxicity evaluations and cumulative toxicity testing. This study investigates the behavioural and biochemical effects of acute exposures to the carbamate carbaryl, the organophosphate chlorpyrifos, and the neonicotinoid acetamiprid on the freshwater gastropod Chilina gibbosa. First, we evaluated behavioural neurotoxicity and cholinesterase (ChE), carboxylesterase (CE), and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities in acute (48h) single-chemical exposures to increasing concentrations of carbaryl (0.5-500 μg L<sup>-1</sup>), chlorpyrifos (10-7500 μg L<sup>-1</sup>), and acetamiprid (1-10000 μg L<sup>-1</sup>). We then studied the effects of acute (48h) exposures to binary mixtures of carbaryl and chlorpyrifos equivalent to 0.5, 1, and 1.5 ChE 48h-IC<sub>50</sub>. None of the insecticides caused severe behavioural neurotoxicity, except for a significant lack of adherence by 5000 μg L<sup>-1</sup> chlorpyrifos. Carbaryl caused concentration-dependent inhibition of ChEs (NOEC 5 μg L<sup>-1</sup>; 48h-IC<sub>50</sub> 45 μg L<sup>-1</sup>) and CEs with p-nitrophenyl butyrate as substrate (NOEC 5 μg L<sup>-1</sup>; 48h-IC<sub>50</sub> 37 μg L<sup>-1</sup>). Chlorpyrifos caused concentration-dependent inhibition of ChEs (NOEC 50 μg L<sup>-1</sup>; 48h-IC<sub>50</sub> 946 μg L<sup>-1</sup>) but did not affect CEs (NOEC ≥7500 μg L<sup>-1</sup>). Carbaryl-chlorpyrifos mixtures inhibited ChEs additively, inhibited CEs with p-nitrophenyl butyrate, and did not affect behaviour. GST activity was not affected by single or mixture exposures. Acute exposure to acetamiprid did not affect any of the endpoints evaluated. This study provides new information on carbaryl, chlorpyrifos, and acetamiprid toxicity on C. gibbosa, relevant to improve gastropod representation in ecotoxicological risk assessment.
33485224	Assessment of the in vivo genotoxicity of pendimethalin via mitochondrial bioenergetics and transcriptional profiles during embryogenesis in zebrafish: Implication of electron transport chain activity and developmental defects.	Pendimethalin, an herbicide used to control weeds, acts by inhibiting plant cell division and mitosis. Several studies have reported the detrimental effects of pendimethalin on non-target organisms. It has been found to be especially toxic to aquatic life. Additionally, there is some evidence that pendimethalin induces mitochondrial stress. However, none of the studies have provided information about the functional defects in mitochondria and toxicity during embryogenesis. In this study, we evaluated the impact of pendimethalin on the electron transport chain (ETC) activity and mitochondrial complexes via in vivo screening of oxidative phosphorylation and transcriptional profiles in zebrafish embryos. The results showed that pendimethalin interferes with mitochondrial complexes I and V, which inhibit embryo energy metabolism, thereby leading to developmental defects. Transgenic zebrafish, fli1:eGFP and olig2:dsRed, were used to confirm pendimethalin-induced functional depletion in neurogenesis and vasculogenesis during embryo development. This study provides new insights into the methodology of environmental assessment of biohazard chemicals that target ETC activity in mitochondria. Additionally, the results suggest that real-time respiratory and metabolic monitoring in zebrafish will be useful for the genotoxicity assessment of environmentally hazardous substances and may be used as an alternative model for the control of aquatic environmental pollutants.
33639551	Acute toxicity, accumulation and sublethal effects of four neonicotinoids on juvenile Black Tiger Shrimp (Penaeus monodon).	Neonicotinoid pesticides have been detected in aquatic habitats, and exposure may impact the health of aquatic organisms such as commercially-important crustaceans. Black Tiger Shrimp (Penaeus monodon) is a broadly distributed and high-value shrimp species that rely on estuaries for early life stages. Differences in the acute toxicity and accumulation of different neonicotinoids in tissues of commercial crustaceans have not been widely investigated. This study compared acute toxicity, uptake, and depuration of four neonicotinoids; thiamethoxam, clothianidin, acetamiprid, and imidacloprid, on juvenile P. monodon and their effects on enzyme biomarkers. Acute toxicity (48-h LC<sub>50</sub>) was determined as 190 μg L<sup>-1</sup> (clothianidin), 390 μg L<sup>-1</sup> (thiamethoxam), 408 μg L<sup>-1</sup> (imidacloprid), and >500 μg L<sup>-1</sup>(acetamiprid). To assess uptake and elimination, shrimp were exposed to a fixed 5 μg L<sup>-1</sup> water concentration for eight days (uptake) or four days of exposure followed by four days of depuration (elimination). Neonicotinoid water and tissue concentrations were measured by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry following solid-phase extraction and QuEChER extraction respectively. The lower toxicity associated with acetamiprid could be associated with lower accumulation in the tissue, with concentrations remaining below 0.01 μg g<sup>-1</sup>. The activity of acetylcholinesterase, catalase and glutathione S-transferase in abdominal tissues was determined by spectrophotometric assay, with significant sublethal effects detected for all four neonicotinoids. Depuration reduced the tissue concentration of the active ingredient and reduced the activity of oxidative stress enzymes. Given acetamiprid showed no acute toxicity and reduced impact on the enzymatic activity of P. monodon, it may be an appropriate alternative to other neonicotinoids in shrimp producing areas.
33641563	Tissue-specific toxicity of clothianidin on rainbow trout (<i>Oncorhynchus mykiss</i>).	This study was performed to investigate the tissue-specific effects of clothianidin on <i>Oncorhynchus mykiss</i> by evaluating the biochemical and histological alterations following 21 days of treatment to environmentally relevant concentrations of 3, 15, and 30 µg/L. The emerged behavioral changes in feeding and swimming performance were considered as adaptive responses to avoid the chemical. The toxic effect of pesticide on nervous system and osmoregulation was evidenced with the inhibition of AChE and Na<sup>+</sup>K<sup>+</sup>-ATPase. The sustained lipid peroxidation, ranging from muscle (196%) > brain (154%) > gill (140%) > kidney (129%), might be suggested as a mechanism mediating the inhibition of membrane-bound enzymes. Histological evaluation showed clothianidin-induced lesions appearing as necrosis, atrophy, and edema in muscle, hyperplasia, and hypertrophy causing shortening and fusion of the secondary lamellae in gill, vacuolization, and hydropic degeneration in brain, degeneration of tubular epithelium, and existence of melanomacrophage centers in kidney. The pronounced degenerative changes observed in gill indicate the vulnerability of tissue possibly due to its role as first contact and entry point for the pesticide. Consequently, clothianidin exerted its toxic effects by altering normal behavior, causing neurotoxicity and disturbing osmoregulation. Moreover, the imposed stress was responded in a tissue-specific manner and histological lesions become more severe with increasing concentration. The findings clearly reveal the potential threat caused by environmentally relevant concentrations of clothianidin to early life stages of fish.
33706242	Pendimethalin induces apoptosis in testicular cells via hampering ER-mitochondrial function and autophagy.	Pendimethalin (PDM) is a dinitroaniline crop pesticide that is extensively utilized worldwide. However, the reproductive toxicity and cellular mechanisms of PDM have not been identified. Therefore, we elucidated the adverse effects of PDM on the reproductive system using mouse testicular Leydig and Sertoli cells (TM3 and TM4 cells, respectively). Our results demonstrated that PDM suppressed the viability and proliferation of TM3 and TM4 cells. Additionally, PDM induced cytosolic calcium upregulation and permeabilization of mitochondrial membrane potential in both TM3 and TM4 cells. We also verified that PDM activates the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress pathway and autophagy. Furthermore, we confirmed that activation of ER stress and autophagy were blocked by 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate (2-APB) treatment. Finally, we confirmed PDM-induced cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in TM3 and TM4 cells. Thus, we first demonstrated that PDM impedes the survival of testis cells, and further, their function.
33778899	Functional alterations by a subgroup of neonicotinoid pesticides in human dopaminergic neurons.	Neonicotinoid pesticides, originally developed to target the insect nervous system, have been reported to interact with human receptors and to activate rodent neurons. Therefore, we evaluated in how far these compounds may trigger signaling in human neurons, and thus, affect the human adult or developing nervous system. We used SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells as established model of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) signaling. In parallel, we profiled dopaminergic neurons, generated from LUHMES neuronal precursor cells, as novel system to study nAChR activation in human post-mitotic neurons. Changes of the free intracellular Ca<sup>2+</sup> concentration ([Ca<sup>2+</sup>]<sub>i</sub>) were used as readout, and key findings were confirmed by patch clamp recordings. Nicotine triggered typical neuronal signaling responses that were blocked by antagonists, such as tubocurarine and mecamylamine. Pharmacological approaches suggested a functional expression of α7 and non-α7 nAChRs on LUHMES cells. In this novel test system, the neonicotinoids acetamiprid, imidacloprid, clothianidin and thiacloprid, but not thiamethoxam and dinotefuran, triggered [Ca<sup>2+</sup>]<sub>i</sub> signaling at 10-100 µM. Strong synergy of the active neonicotinoids (at low micromolar concentrations) with the α7 nAChR-positive allosteric modulator PNU-120596 was observed in LUHMES and SH-SY5Y cells, and specific antagonists fully inhibited such signaling. To provide a third line of evidence for neonicotinoid signaling via nAChR, we studied cross-desensitization: pretreatment of LUHMES and SH-SY5Y cells with active neonicotinoids (at 1-10 µM) blunted the signaling response of nicotine. The pesticides (at 3-30 µM) also blunted the response to the non-α7 agonist ABT 594 in LUHMES cells. These data show that human neuronal cells are functionally affected by low micromolar concentrations of several neonicotinoids. An effect of such signals on nervous system development is a toxicological concern.
34029839	Association between pesticide exposure and colorectal cancer risk and incidence: A systematic review.	Studies investigating the association between pesticide exposure and colorectal cancer (CRC) risk have been inconclusive.
34280841	Cardiac toxicity assessment of pendimethalin in zebrafish embryos.	Pendimethalin (PND) is one of the best sellers of selective herbicide in the world and has been frequently detected in the water. However, little is known about its effects on cardiac development. In this study, we used zebrafish to investigate the developmental and cardiac toxicity of PND. We exposed the zebrafish embryos with a serial of concentrations at 3, 4, and 5 mg/L at 5.5-72 h post-fertilization (hpf). We found that PND exposure can reduce the heart rate, survival rate, and body length of zebrafish embryos. Furthermore, we identified many malformations including pericardial and yolk sac edema, spinal deformity, and cardiac looping abnormality. In addition, PND increased the expression of reactive oxygen species and malondialdehyde and reduced the activity of superoxide dismutase (Antioxidant enzymes); We examined the expression of cardiac development-related genes and the apoptosis markers, and found changes of the following marker: vmhc, nppa, tbx5a, nkx2.5, gata4, tbx2b and FoxO1, bax, bcl-2, p53, casp-9, casp-3. Our data showed that activation of Wnt pathway can rescue the cardiac abnormalities caused by PND. Our results provided new evidence for the toxicity of PND and suggested that the PND residual should be treated as a hazard in the environment.
34351280	Associations of neonicotinoids with insulin and glucose homeostasis parameters in US adults: NHANES 2015-2016.	Neonicotinoids are replacement insecticides increasingly used for organophosphates, methylcarbamates, and pyrethroids. Experimental evidence suggests neonicotinoids may affect glucose metabolism and insulin secretion through pancreatic β cell dysfunction, oxidative stress, and inflammation. However, no epidemiologic study has investigated neonicotinoids as potential diabetogens. We examined associations between neonicotinoids with insulin and glucose homeostasis parameters among 1381 non-diabetic adults in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (2015-2016). Urinary concentrations of acetamiprid, clothianidin, imidacloprid, N-desmethyl-acetamiprid, and 5-hydroxy-imidacloprid were quantified. Fasting plasma glucose, insulin, and hemoglobin A<sub>1c</sub> (HbA<sub>1c</sub>) were assessed. Insulin resistance was defined as a homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance ≥2.5. We used weighted linear and logistic regression to estimate associations between detectable neonicotinoids with insulin and glucose homeostasis parameters compared to non-detectable neonicotinoid concentrations. Weighted detection frequencies for imidacloprid, 5-hydroxy-imidacloprid, and N-desmethyl-acetamiprid were 4.4 %, 21.5 %, and 32.8 %, respectively. Detectable imidacloprid (β = -4.7 μIU/mL, 95 % confidence interval [CI] -8.5, -0.8) and 5-hydroxy-imidacloprid (β = -2.4 μIU/mL, 95 % CI -4.6, -0.2) were associated with lower fasting plasma insulin levels. Individuals with detectable 5-hydroxy-imidacloprid had lower odds of insulin resistance (odds ratio [OR] = 0.3, 95 % CI 0.2, 0.7). We observed evidence of sexually dimorphic associations between N-desmethyl-acetamiprid with glucose (p<sub>int</sub> = 0.079) and 5-hydroxy-imidacloprid with HbA<sub>1c</sub> (p<sub>int</sub> = 0.038), with patterns suggesting positive associations in males and negative associations in females. Associations between 5-hydroxy-imidacloprid and insulin were modified by body mass index (BMI) (p<sub>int</sub> = 0.013). We additionally observed age modified associations between 5-hydyroxy-imidacloprid and glucose (p<sub>int</sub> = 0.048). Results suggest neonicotinoids may be associated with insulin and glucose homeostasis indices and call for prospective studies to examine the metabolic impact of these replacement insecticides in humans.
34537335	Potential role of dietary chitosan nanoparticles against immunosuppression, inflammation, oxidative stress, and histopathological alterations induced by pendimethalin toxicity in Nile tilapia.	A 21-days feeding screening period was conducted to highlight the protective efficacy of dietary chitosan nanoparticles (CSNPs) on pendimethalin (PD)-induced toxicity in Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus). Hematology, non-specific immune response, the antioxidative enzymes [superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT), glutathione reduced (GSH), and glutathione peroxidase (GPx)] in the liver and anterior kidney, changes of pro-inflammatory cytokine genes [interleukins-8 (IL-8), interleukins-1β (IL-1β), and tumor necrosis-α (TNF-α)] in the anterior kidney and histopathological alterations were assessed. Fish (50 ± 7.5 g) were randomly assigned into four groups (Three replicates), the first group served as the negative control and fed on the control diet only, and the second group served as the positive control and fed on the control diet supplemented with CSNPs (1 g kg<sup>-1</sup> diet). The two other groups were exposed to 1/10 96-h LC<sub>50</sub> PD (0.5 mg L<sup>-1</sup>) in rearing water and simultaneously fed the control diet alone or supplemented with CSNPs (1 g kg<sup>-1</sup> diet), respectively. Fish were fed on the experimental diets twice a day for 21 days. The results revealed that PD exposure caused a significant decline in the survival rate of the Nile tilapia, as well as in most of the hematological indices, respiratory burst activity, phagocytic activity, total immunoglobulin levels, lysozyme, and bactericidal activity. Additionally, PD toxicity markedly suppressed most of the antioxidative enzymatic activities in both tissues together with upregulation of immune genes (IL-8 and TNF-α); however, IL-1β expression remained unaffected. The histopathological results revealed marked pathological changes in spleen, liver and intestine with a notable decrease of intestinal goblet cells in PD-exposed groups. Conversely, CSNPs exerted protective effects through improving the above mentioned parameters. Thus, CSNPs supplementation exhibited defensive effects against PD toxicity in Nile tilapia that might provide an insight into the promising role of CSNPs as a potential immunomodulatory feed additive for tilapia in aquaculture.
34562505	Pesticides applied to crops and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis risk in the U.S.	Environmental exposures are implicated in the etiology of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Application of insecticides, herbicides, and fungicides with neurotoxic properties to crops is permitted in the U.S., however reporting of the quantities is government mandated.
34571697	Cellular Stress Pathways Are Linked to Acetamiprid-Induced Apoptosis in SH-SY5Y Neural Cells.	Acetamiprid (ACE), a commonly used neonicotinoid insecticide, is correlated with neurological symptoms, immunotoxicity and hepatotoxicity. Cellular stress and damage could play an important role in ACE-induced neurotoxicity; however, its mechanism has not been fully understood. We evaluated the effects of ACE on oxidative stress, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, cellular death, mRNA expression levels of related genes and protein expressions of related molecular mechanisms in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells. The half maximal inhibition of enzyme activity (IC<sub>50</sub>) value of ACE was determined as 4.26 mM after 24 h of treatment by MTT assay. We revealed an increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and calcium release. Significant increases were measured in inositol-requiring enzyme 1-alpha (IRE1-α) and binding immunoglobulin protein 90 (GRP90) levels as well as mRNA expression levels of caspase 3, 4 and 9 genes indicating enhanced ER stress. Apoptosis and ER stress-related genes were significantly upregulated at ≥2 mM. Indeed, ACE caused apoptosis and necroptosis while necrosis was not observed. There was a significant increase in the protein level of mitogen-activated protein kinase-8 (MAPK8) at 4 mM of ACE while no change was seen for nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α). In conclusion, increased cellular stress markers could be proposed as an underlying mechanism of ACE-induced cell death in neural cells.
34699920	Distribution of pesticides and some of their transformation products in a small lentic waterbody: Fish, water, and sediment contamination in an agricultural watershed.	More than 20 years after the Water Framework Directive was adopted, there are still major gaps in the sanitary status of small rivers and waterbodies at the head of basins. These small streams supply water to a large number of wetlands that support a rich biodiversity. Many of these waterbodies are fishponds whose production is destined for human consumption or for the restocking of other aquatic environments. However, these ecosystems are exposed to contaminants, including pesticides and their transformation products. This work aims to provide information on the distribution, diversity, and concentrations of agricultural contaminants in abiotic and biotic compartments from a fishpond located at the head of watersheds. A total of 20 pesticides and 20 transformation products were analyzed by HPLC-ESI-MS/MS in water and sediment sampled monthly throughout a fish production cycle, and in three fish species at the beginning and end of the cycle. The highest mean concentrations were found for metazachlor-OXA (519.48 ± 56.52 ng.L<sup>-1</sup>) in water and benzamide (4.23 ± 0.17 ng g<sup>-1</sup> dry wt.) in sediment. Up to 20 contaminants were detected per water sample and 26 per sediment sample. The transformation products of atrazine (banned in Europe since 2003 but still widely used in other parts of the world), flufenacet, imidacloprid (banned in France since 2018), metazachlor, and metolachlor were more concentrated than their parent compounds. Fewer contaminants were detected in fish and principally prosulfocarb accumulated in organisms during the cycle. Our work brings innovative data on the contamination of small waterbodies located at the head of a basin. The transformation products with the highest frequency of occurrence and concentrations should be prioritized for further environmental monitoring studies, and specific toxicity thresholds should be defined. Few contaminants were found in fish, but the results challenge the widely use of prosulfocarb.
34738321	Benchmark dose and the adverse effects of exposure to pendimethalin at low dose in female rats.	Pendimethalin (PND) is a dinitroaniline herbicide widely used to control broadleaf and annual grasses. Although the acute oral toxicity of PND is >5 g/kg b.wt. in humans (LD<sub>50</sub> for rats >5000 g/kg b.wt.), it has been classified as a possible human carcinogen. It is still used in agriculture so agricultural workers and their families, as well as consumers, can be exposed to this herbicide. The present study is the first report investigating the dose-response effect using the benchmark dose (BMD) and the adverse effects of exposure to PND at low dose via apoptosis responses linked to the expression of tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), FAS and BAX proteins; oxidative stress; and DNA and liver damage in female rats. The rats were exposed to PND via drinking water at doses equivalent to no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL = 100 mg/kg b.wt.), 200 and 400 mg/kg b.wt. for 28 days. PND caused the overexpression of TNF-α, FAS and BAX; increased the levels of serum liver biomarkers; and increased oxidative stress in the liver and erythrocytes. Furthermore, it induced DNA and liver damage in a dose-dependent manner. The BMD showed that serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and total antioxidant capacity (78.4 and 30.1 mg/kg b.wt./day, respectively), lipid peroxidation in liver tissue (30.9 mg/kg b.wt./day), catalase in erythrocytes (14.0 mg/kg b.wt./day) and FAS expression in liver tissue (6.89 mg/kg b.wt./day) were highly sensitive biomarkers of PND toxicity. Our findings suggest the generation of reactive oxygen species as a possible mechanism of PND-induced gene overexpression of tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), FAS and BAX proteins, oxidative stress and DNA and liver damage in female rats.
34813896	Assessing sub-lethal effects of the dinitroaniline herbicide pendimethalin in zebrafish embryos/larvae (Danio rerio).	Pendimethalin is a dinitroaniline herbicide used to control broadleaf weeds by inhibiting the formation of microtubules during cell division. Its use on a variety of crops leads to its potential entry into aquatic environments, but little is known about its sub-lethal toxicity to early developmental stages of aquatic vertebrates. To address this knowledge gap, we assessed the toxicity of pendimethalin to zebrafish embryos and larvae by measuring mortality, developmental abnormalities, oxidative respiration, reactive oxygen species, gene expression, and locomotor activity following exposure to the herbicide throughout early development. Embryos at ~6 h post-fertilization (hpf) were exposed to either a solvent control (0.1% DMSO, v/v), embryo rearing medium (ERM), or one dose of either 1, 2.5, 5, or 25 μM pendimethalin for up to 7-days post fertilization depending on the bioassay. Exposure to 25 μM pendimethalin resulted in high prevalence of spinal curvature, tail malformations, pericardial edema, and yolk sac edema at 4 dpf, while exposure to 5 μM pendimethalin induced pericardial edema and lordosis in the fish exposed over 7 dpf. Exposure to pendimethalin up to 5 μM did not negatively impact oxidative respiration (e.g., basal respiration, oligomycin-induced ATP production) in embryos following a 24-h exposure. Pendimethalin did not induce reactive oxygen species at concentrations of 1-5 μM. Levels of transcripts associated with oxidative respiration and damage response were altered in 7d-larvae; cox1 mRNA was increased in larvae fish exposed to 1 μM while cox5a1 and sod2 mRNA were decreased with 2.5 μM exposure. The Visual Motor Response (VMR) test for light-dark response revealed that larval activity in the dark period was reduced for zebrafish exposed to >1 μM pendimethalin compared to ERM and DMSO solvent control groups. These data inform on the sub-lethal toxicity of pendimethalin to early stages of fish embryos and larvae.
34916546	Direct pesticide exposure of insects in nature conservation areas in Germany.	In Germany, the decline of insect biomass was observed in nature conservation areas in agricultural landscapes. One of the main causal factors discussed is the use of synthetic pesticides in conventional agriculture. In a Germany-wide field study, we collected flying insects using Malaise traps in nature conservation areas adjacent to agricultural land. We used a multi-component chemical trace element analysis to detect 92 common agricultural pesticides in ethanol from insect traps sampled in May and August 2020. In total, residues of 47 current use pesticides were detected, and insect samples were on average contaminated with 16.7 pesticides. Residues of the herbicides metolachlor-S, prosulfocarb and terbuthylazine, and the fungicides azoxystrobin and fluopyram were recorded at all sites. The neonicotinoid thiacloprid was detected in 16 of 21 nature conservation areas, most likely due to final use before an EU-wide ban. A change in residue mixture composition was noticeable due to higher herbicide use in spring and increasing fungicide applications in summer. The number of substances of recorded residues is related to the proportion of agricultural production area in a radius of 2000 m. Therefore, a drastic pesticide reduction in large buffers around nature conservation areas is necessary to avoid contamination of their insect fauna.
35037685	MFI, BEA and FAU zeolite scavenging role in neonicotinoids and radical species elimination.	Ecotoxicity caused by neonicotinoid pesticides is largely due to oxidative stress on non-target species. Due to the fact that reactive radical species reach the environment, materials intended for pesticide removal should be applicable for the simultaneous removal of reactive radicals, as well. This work uses the spectroscopic, adsorptive and antioxidant responses from MFI, FAU and BEA zeolites as descriptors of their potential environmental importance. Different network structures and Si/Al ratios were correlated with excellent zeolite adsorption properties, as over 200 mg g<sup>-1</sup> of investigated neonicotinoids, acetamiprid and imidacloprid, was achieved in one cycle. Additionally, after two regeneration steps, over 450 mg g<sup>-1</sup> adsorbed pesticides were retained, in three adsorption cycles. Overall the best results were detected for the FAU zeotype in both tested applications, insecticide adsorption and radical-scavenging performance, with and without insecticides present. The proposed mechanism for adsorption relies on kinetic investigation, isotherm modelling and spectroscopic post-adsorption analysis and targets zeolite hydroxyl/siloxane groups as active sites for insecticide adsorption <i>via</i> hydrogen bonding. Neat, well-defined zeolite structures enable their prospective application in ecotoxic species removal.
35106090	Statement on the active substance acetamiprid.	Acetamiprid is a pesticide active substance with insecticidal action currently under the third renewal (AIR3) of the Commission implementing regulation (EU) No 844/2012. Following concerns that this substance may pose high risks to humans and the environment, the French authorities asked the Commission to restrict its uses under Article 69 of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. To support this request, competent Authorities from France cited a series of literature papers investigating its hazards and/or exposure to humans and the environment. Consequently, the EFSA PPR Panel was mandated to advise on the likelihood that body of evidence would constitute proof of serious risks to humans or the environment. Therefore, the EFSA PPR Panel evaluated the likelihood of these studies indicating new or higher hazards and exposure to humans and the environment compared to previous EU assessments.A stepwise methodology was designed, including: (i) the initial screening; (ii) the data extraction and critical appraisal based on the principles of OHAT/NTP; (iii) the weight of evidence, including consideration of the previous EU assessments; (iv) the uncertainty analysis, followed, whenever relevant, by an expert knowledge elicitation process. For human health, no conclusive evidence of higher hazards compared to previous assessment was found for genotoxicity, developmental toxicity, neurotoxicity including developmental neurotoxicity and immunotoxicity. However, due to the lack of adequate assessment of the current data set, the PPR Panel recommends conducting an assessment of endocrine disrupting properties for acetamiprid in line with EFSA/ECHA guidance document for the identification of endocrine disruptors. For environment, no conclusive, robust evidence of higher hazards compared to the previous assessment was found for birds, aquatic organisms, bees and soil organisms. However, the potential of high inter-species sensitivity of birds and bees towards acetamiprid requires further consideration.
35229877	Zebrafish embryo neonicotinoid developmental neurotoxicity in the FET test and behavioral assays.	The need for reliable, sensitive (developmental) neurotoxicity testing of chemicals has steadily increased. Given the limited capacities for routine testing according to accepted regulatory guidelines, there is potential risk to human health and the environment. Most toxicity studies are based on mammalian test systems, which have been questioned for low sensitivity, limited relevance for humans, and animal welfare considerations. This increased the need for alternative models, one of which is the zebrafish (Danio rerio) embryo. This study assessed selected neonicotinoids at sub-lethal concentrations for their effects on embryonic development and behavior. The fish embryo acute toxicity test (OECD TG 236) determined the lowest observable effective concentrations, which were used as the highest test concentrations in subsequent behavioral assays. In the FET test, no severe compound-induced sublethal effects were seen at < 100 µM. In the coiling assay, exposure to ≥ 1.25 µM nicotine (positive control) affected both the burst duration and burst count per minute, whereas ≥ 50 µM thiacloprid affected the mean burst duration. Exposure to ≥ 50 µM acetamiprid and imidacloprid induced significant alterations in both mean burst duration and burst count per minute. In the swimming assay, 100 µM acetamiprid induced alterations in the frequency and extent of movements, whilst nicotine exposure only induced non-significant changes. All behavioral changes could be correlated to findings in mammalian studies. Given the quest for alternative test methods of (developmental) neurotoxicity, zebrafish embryo behavior testing could be integrated into a future tiered testing scheme.
35278537	Dinitroaniline herbicide pendimethalin affects development and induces biochemical and histological alterations in zebrafish early-life stages.	Pendimethalin (PND) is a dinitroaniline preemergent herbicide widely used to control grasses and weeds. The present study aimed to evaluate the PND potential effects on the development of zebrafish early-life stages. The research focuses first on acute toxicity, followed by the integration of toxicity results through histopathology, oxidative status, and neurotoxicity evaluation of sublethal and environmentally relevant concentrations. Zebrafish larvae exposed to PND showed mortality and developed sublethal alterations including impaired fin development, lordosis, scoliosis, blood congestion, impaired blood flow, and reduced heartbeat. PND exposure (0.5 mg/L) affects musculoskeletal development leading to delayed and reduced ossification of the vertebral centra in the developing vertebral column and disruption of muscle morphology. Herbicide exposure (0.5 mg/L and 0.05 mg/L) led also to biochemical changes of antioxidant enzymes, increasing the activity of CAT, GR, and GPx, while no effects were observed on the activity of SOD and GST in zebrafish larvae. Lastly, AChE activity, a biochemical marker of neurotoxicity, was also increased in zebrafish larvae exposed to 0.5 mg/L of PND. These results confirm the developmental toxicity of PND in zebrafish early-life stages, pointing out the potential role of oxidative stress in the onset of sublethal alterations.
35528506	Clinicohematological, Mutagenic, and Oxidative Stress Induced by Pendimethalin in Freshwater Fish Bighead Carp (<i>Hypophthalmichthys nobilis</i>).	Currently, aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems are continuously and chronically polluted by cocktails of countless chemical compounds. The susceptibility to infections is tremendously increasing in a variety of organisms due to exposure to environmental pollutants. Pendimethalin, an herbicide, is continuously used in agriculture to remove unwanted broadleaf weeds across the globe. Therefore, this study investigates the mechanisms of toxicity of pendimethalin in freshwater fish bighead carp upon exposure to low and environmentally relevant concentrations. For this purpose, 48 fish without any clinical abnormalities were kept in a glass aquarium in different experimental groups (T0, T1, T2, and T3). These groups were treated with pendimethalin at 0.00, 0.25, 0.50, and 0.75 mg/L, respectively. Four fish were randomly picked from each experimental group and killed at 72, 96, and 120 hours of the trial to study hematobiochemical parameters and visceral tissues including the brain, liver, heart, gills, and kidneys for histopathology. Herbicide-treated fish indicated various physical and behavioral abnormalities including hypersecretion of mucus, erratic swimming, operculum movement, air gulping, tremors of fins, loss of equilibrium, and increased surface breathing. Histopathologically, gills tissues of treated fish indicated atrophied lamellae, uplifting of secondary lamellae, necrosis of primary and secondary lamellar epithelial cells, telogenesis, congestion, and lamellar fusion. Histopathological examination of liver tissues of treated fish showed mild to moderate congestion, necrosis of hepatocytes, and atrophy of hepatocytes while kidneys revealed degeneration of renal tubules, glomerular atrophy, ceroid, and necrosis of renal tubules. The erythrocyte counts, monocyte and lymphocyte counts, and hemoglobin values were significantly (<i>P</i> < 0.05) reduced in pendimethalin-treated fish. Results on serum biochemistry showed that the biomarkers of kidneys, heart, and liver were significantly higher in fish of treated groups. In addition, values of different biochemical reactions like reactive oxygen species (ROS), thiobarbituric acid reactive species (TBARS), total proteins, and quantity of different antioxidant enzymes including reduced glutathione (GSH), catalase, and superoxide dismutase (SOD) were significantly different when compared to untreated fish. Moreover, the percentile of different nuclear abnormalities in red blood cells and frequency of DNA damage increased significantly in treated fish. It can be concluded from the findings that pendimethalin causes its toxic effects via disruption of physiological and hematobiochemical reactions of fish.
35781001	Different cellular mechanism of imidacloprid and acetamiprid by a combined targeted lipidomics and metabolomics approach in Neuro-2a cells.	As commonly used neonicotinoid insecticides for pest control, imidacloprid (IMI) and acetamiprid (ACE) posed neurotoxicity effects on living organisms. However, researches of the differences in toxicity mechanism between these two neonicotinoid insecticides are still limited. In this study, different cellular metabolism perturbations and redox homeostasis damages induced by IMI and ACE exposure in Neuro-2a cells were investigated. Distinct elevation of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity and caspase 7 level demonstrated the influences on necrosis and apoptosis. There were 21 and 12 metabolites screened out as potential biomarkers after IMI and ACE exposure, including lipids and amino acids. Remarkable decrease of lipid hydroperoxides (LOOH) and increase of reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation were found only in the ACE20 group. Interference with glutathione metabolism pathway was further validated by detecting GPx (glutathion peroxidase), GSH (reduced glutathione) and GSSG (oxidized glutathione) levels. Taken together, the metabolic interferences and oxidative damages in ACE20 group were significantly different from the other three exposure groups. These results help to explore the toxicity mechanism of neonicotinoid insecticides from multiple perspectives. This study provides scientific basis for evaluating toxicity of different neonicotinoid insecticides.
35985363	Pendimethalin induces apoptotic cell death through activating ER stress-mediated mitochondrial dysfunction in human umbilical vein endothelial cells.	Pendimethalin is globally registered for control of a wide range of weeds in agriculture and home landscaping. Human exposure to pendimethalin can occur by the oral route through food and other sources. Endothelial function is vital to numerous biological processes, and endothelial dysfunction and poor vascular health is associated with increased atherosclerotic events; however, no study has yet investigated the potential effect of pendimethalin on endothelial function and vasculature formation. The objective of the current study is to investigate if pendimethalin may affect the viability and function of vascular endothelial cells. We observed that pendimethalin significantly repressed viability of human endothelial cells, inducing G1 cell cycle arrest and apoptotic/necrotic cell death. Pendimethalin treatment also activated ER stress and autophagy, leading to loss of mitochondrial membrane potential. In addition, pendimethalin impaired the tube forming and migratory abilities of endothelial cells. This study provides previously unrecognized adverse effects of pendimethalin in vascular endothelial cells, mediated by ER stress-induced mitochondrial dysfunction.
36202272	Unravelling the occurrence of trace contaminants in surface waters using semi-quantitative suspected non-target screening analyses.	Several classes of anthropogenic chemicals such as pesticides and pharmaceuticals are frequently used in human-related life activities and are discharged into the aquatic environment. These compounds can exert an unknown effect on aquatic life and humans if the water is used for human consumption. Thus, unravelling their occurrence in the aquatic system is crucial for the well-being of life and monitoring purposes. To this end, we used nanoflow-liquid and ion-exchange chromatography hyphenated with orbitrap high-resolution tandem mass spectrometry to detect several thousands of features (chemical entities) in surface water. Later, the features were narrowed down to a few focused lists using a stepwise filtering strategy, for which the structural elucidation was made. Accordingly, the chemical structure was confirmed for 83 compounds from different application areas, mainly being pharmaceuticals, pesticides, and other multiple application industrial compounds and xenobiotic degradation products. The compounds with the highest concentration were lamotrigine (27.6 μg/L), valsartan (14.4 μg/L), and ibuprofen (12.7 μg/L). Some compounds such as prosulfocarb, fluopyram, and tris(3-chloropropyl) phosphate were found to be the most abundant and widespread contaminants. Of the 32 sampling sites, nearly half of the sites (47%) contained more than 30 different compounds. Two sampling sites were far more contaminated than other sites based on the estimated concentration and the number of identified contaminants they contained. Our triplicate analysis revealed a low relative standard deviation between replicates, advocating for the added value in analysing more sampling sites instead of sample repetition. Overall, our study elucidated the occurrence of organic contaminants from a variety of sources in the aquatic environment. Furthermore, our findings highlighted the role of suspected non-target screening in exposing a snapshot of the chemical composition of surface water and the localized possible contamination sources.
36207421	Combined transcriptome and metabolite profiling analyses provide insights into the chronic toxicity of carbaryl and acetamiprid to Apis mellifera larvae.	Despite many studies have revealed that developing honey bee (Apis mellifera) larvae are posting a high risk on exposure to insecticides, the toxicology information on bee larvae remain limited. The present study demonstrated the first assessment of the effects of no observed adverse effect concentration (NOAEC) of carbaryl (CR) and acetamiprid (ACE) on transcriptome and metabolome in honeybee larvae reared in vitro. Chronic exposure to carbaryl caused transcriptional disorders associated with oxidative stress. In addition, a series of metabolic homeostasis were disrupted by carbaryl stress, such amino acid metabolism, purine and pyrimidine metabolism and flavone and flavonol biosynthesis. The activities of enzymic biomarkers including GST, P450, CAT, AChE and SOD were not influenced by ACE stress, while the CR exposure slightly decreased the activity of CAT and SOD. Our results clearly show that ACE and CR display different potential to modulate transcriptome and metabolome associated with their different toxicity against bee larvae.
36704964	Comparative assessment of acute toxicity and histological changes in liver of African catfish <i>Clarias gariepinus</i> exposed to cotton insecticides.	This study investigated the acute toxicity in <i>Clarias gariepinus</i> to insecticides currently used in Benin cotton fields, including Thalis 112 EC (Emamectin benzoate 48 g L<sup>-1</sup>, Acetamiprid 64 g L<sup>-1</sup>), Vizir C 92 EC (Cypermethrin 72 g L<sup>-1</sup>, Abamectin 20 g L<sup>-1</sup>), Pyrinex Quick 212 EC (Deltamethrin 12 g L<sup>-1</sup>, Chlorpyrifos 200 g L<sup>-1</sup>) and Pyro FTE 472 EC (Cypermethrin 72 g L<sup>-1</sup>, Chlorpyrifos 400 g L<sup>-1</sup>) with emphasis on liver histopathological effects. A set of 180 juveniles of <i>C. gariepinus</i> (5.21 ± 3.22 g) was exposed for 96 h to increasing concentrations of each pesticide. The values of 96-hLC<sub>50</sub> were 4.778, 0.002, 0.004, and 0.012 µL L<sup>-1</sup> for Thalis, Vizir, Pyrinex, and Pyro, respectively, indicating that Vizir, Pyrinex, and Pyro were very highly toxic to <i>C. gariepinus</i> juveniles. During the experiments, the morphological and behavioral responses (discoloration, hyperactivity, lethargy, etc.) were observed in exposed fish, hypothesizing the neurotoxicity of these pesticides. Histopathological alterations observed in liver of contaminated fish were regressive changes, such as necrosis, vacuolation, bleeding, nuclear degeneration, hepatocytes degeneration, sinusoids dilatation, etc. Vizir induced the highest histological alteration indices while the lowest were induced by Thalis, confirming the highest toxicity of Vizir. These results indicate that acute concentrations of these insecticidal molecules have destructive effects on the liver of <i>C. gariepinus</i>.
36827829	Characteristics of tissue distribution, metabolism, effects on brain catecholamines, and environmental exposure of frogs to neonicotinoid insecticides.	Pesticide exposure is considered to be one important factor responsible for declining amphibian populations worldwide. The usage of neonicotinoid insecticides (NNIs) has markedly increased in recent years, and there are concerns regarding the effects of NNI-induced toxicity on the development and behavior of amphibians. However, there have been few reports on the metabolism, distribution, and neurotoxicity of NNIs in amphibians. In this study, we exposed the Western clawed frog (Silurana tropicalis) to clothianidin (CLT) in water. After 24 h of exposure, the highest concentrations were detected in the skin, indicating that frogs are at a high risk of absorbing CLT through their skin along with water. Excretion of CLT was estimated based on the concentrations of CLT metabolites in the water until 48 h of exposure. The findings showed that frogs had higher CLT metabolic ability than zebrafish. Serotonin levels in the brain were lower in the high-concentration CLT exposure group than in the control group, although the difference was not statistically significant. This suggested that catecholamine-related effects of CLT on the brain cannot be disregarded. In addition, quantitative analyses of NNI residue in wild frogs, soil, and water in agricultural areas in Hokkaido, Japan, were performed and four NNIs were detected. These results indicated the possible risk of NNI-induced toxicity in frogs. This is the first report of the characteristics of tissue distribution and metabolism of NNIs in frogs, which may facilitate the design of appropriate conservation programs for amphibians.
36858584	Neurotoxicity and behavioral disorders induced in mice by acute exposure to the diamide insecticide chlorantraniliprole.	Diamide insecticides activate ryanodine receptors expressed in lepidopteran skeletal muscle and promote Ca<sup>2+</sup> release in the sarcoplasmic reticulum, causing abnormal contractions and paralysis, leading to death of the pest. Although they had been thought not to act on nontarget organisms, including mammals, adverse effects on vertebrates were recently reported, raising concerns about their safety in humans. We investigated the neurotoxicity of the acute no-observed-adverse-effect level of chlorantraniliprole (CAP), a diamide insecticide, in mice using clothianidin (CLO), a neonicotinoid insecticide, as a positive control. The CLO-administered group showed decreased locomotor activities, increased anxiety-like behaviors, and abnormal human-audible vocalizations, while the CAP-administered group showed anxiety-like behaviors but no change in locomotor activities. The CAP-administered group had greater numbers of c-fos-immunoreactive cells in the hippocampal dentate gyrus, and similar to the results in a CLO-administered group in our previous study. Blood corticosterone levels increased in the CLO-administered group but did not change in the CAP-administered group. Additionally, CAP was found to decreased 3-Methoxytyramine and histamine in mice at the time to maximum concentration. These results suggest that CAP-administered mice are less vulnerable to stress than CLO-administered mice, and the first evidence that CAP exposure increases neuronal activity and induces anxiety-like behavior as well as neurotransmitter disturbances in mammals.
36858607	Developmental stage-specific exposure and neurotoxicity evaluation of low-dose clothianidin during neuronal circuit formation.	Neonicotinoid pesticides (NN) were recently reported to exhibit adverse effects in higher vertebrates. Moreover, NNs are routinely transferred from mother to offspring, raising concerns about their effects on future generations. The fetal and neonatal periods are the most critical to the formation of neural circuits in the brain through neurogenesis and differentiation, neuronal migration, axon guidance, and synaptogenesis. NN exposure throughout the fetal and neonatal periods was found to affect the neurobehavior of the offspring, but the stage-specific neurobehavioral effects are unclear. We exposed fetal and neonatal mice to a no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) of clothianidin (CLO) for 4 days during each of four developmental stages: neurite proliferation and differentiation (fetal days 9-12, CLO-1), neurite outgrowth (fetal days 15-18, CLO-2), synapse formation and astrocyte differentiation (days 1-4 after birth, CLO-3), and synapse remodeling (days 11-14 after birth, CLO-4). CLO's neurobehavioral effects were evaluated in juveniles and adults, revealing that CLO-1 and CLO-2 caused behavioral abnormalities in adult mice. CLO-3 significantly increased locomotor activity and decreased juvenile neurons in the hippocampal dentate gyrus in adulthood. Comprehensive gene analysis of CLO-3 revealed high expression of genes related to neurite outgrowth and axonal branching in the hippocampus in juveniles and adults. These results revealed developmental stage-specific effects of a NOAEL of CLO in the fetal and neonatal periods, suggesting that the susceptibility of the fetus and neonate to CLO varies by developmental stage.
36922956	The Probiotic <i>Lactobacillus sakei</i> Subsp. <i>Sakei</i> and Hawthorn Extract Supplements Improved Growth Performance, Digestive Enzymes, Immunity, and Resistance to the Pesticide Acetamiprid in Common Carp (<i>Cyprinus carpio</i>).	This study evaluated the impacts of the probiotic, <i>Lactobacillus sakei</i> (<i>L. sakei</i>), and the extract of hawthorn, <i>Crataegus elbursensis</i>, on growth and immunity of the common carp exposed to acetamiprid. Fish (mean ± SE: 11.48 ± 0.1 g) feeding was done with formulated diets (<i>T</i> <sub>1</sub> (control): no supplementation, <i>T</i> <sub>2</sub>: 1 × 10<sup>6</sup> CFU/g LS (<i>Lactobacillus sakei</i>), T3: 1 × 10<sup>8</sup> CFU/g LS, <i>T</i> <sub>4</sub>: 0.5% hawthorn extract (HWE), and <i>T</i> <sub>5</sub>: 1% HWE) for 60 days and then exposed to acetamiprid for 14 days. The growth performance improved in the fish fed LS at dietary level of 1 × 10<sup>8</sup> CFU/g, even after exposure to acetamiprid (<i>P</i> < 0.05). Intestinal <i>Lactobacillus sakei</i> (CFU/g) load increased (<i>P</i> < 0.05), following supplementation with the probiotic-enriched diet. The LS-treated fish had increases in the activity of digestive enzymes (<i>P</i> < 0.05). Both LS and HWE stimulated antioxidant enzymes and immune system components in serum and mucus (alkaline phosphatase (ALP), protease, total Ig, and lysozyme) (<i>P</i> < 0.05). However, the changes were different depending on the kind of the supplement. The malondialdehyde (MDA) levels decreased in HWE-treated fish after acetamiprid exposure (<i>P</i> < 0.05). Both LS and HWE reduced the liver metabolic enzymes (LDH, ALP, AST, ALT, and LDH) in serum both before and after exposure to the pesticide (<i>P</i> < 0.05). However, each enzyme exhibited a different change trend depending on the type of the supplement. HWE showed a stress-ameliorating effect, as glucose and cortisol levels declined in the HWE-treated fish (<i>P</i> < 0.05). This study indicated the immunomodulatory impacts of LS (1 × 10<sup>8</sup> CFU/g) and HWE (at dietary levels of 0.5-1%). The probiotic showed more performance compared to HWE. However, the HWE mitigated oxidative stress more efficiently than the probiotic.
37149154	Developmental exposure of zebrafish to neonicotinoid pesticides: Long-term effects on neurobehavioral function.	Neonicotinoid compounds are commonly used insecticides which have become increasingly used as replacements of older generations of insecticides, such as organophosphates. Given the established neurotoxicity of cholinergic toxicants, developmental neurotoxicity studies are needed to identify in vertebrate species the potential toxicity of these insecticides which act on nicotinic cholinergic receptors. Previously, developmental exposure to a neonicotinoid insecticide imidacloprid was shown to cause persisting neurobehavioral toxicity in zebrafish. The current study evaluated neurobehavioral effects of embryonic exposure to two other neonicotinoid insecticides, clothianidin (1-100 µM) and dinotefuran (1-100 µM) in zebrafish (5-120 h post-fertilization), concentrations below the threshold for increased lethality and overt dysmorphogenesis. Neurobehavioral tests were conducted at larval (6 days), adolescent (10 weeks) and adult (8 months) ages. Both compounds caused short-term behavioral effects on larval motility, although these effects were distinct from one another. At a lower concentration (1 µM) clothianidin increased dark-induced locomotor stimulation the second time the lights turned off, while a higher concentration (100 µM) reduced activity in the dark at its second presentation. By contrast, dinotefuran (10-100 µM) caused a general decrease in locomotion. Specific longer-term neurobehavioral toxicity after early developmental exposure was also seen. clothianidin (100 µM) reduced locomotor activity in the novel tank in adolescence and adulthood, as well as reduced baseline activity in the tap startle test (1-100 µM) and reduced activity early (1-10 µM) or throughout the predator avoidance test session (100 µM). In addition to locomotor effects, clothianidin altered the diving response in a dose-, age- and time-block-dependent manner (1 µM, 100 µM), causing fish to remain further away from a fast predator cue (100 µM) relative to controls. Dinotefuran produced comparatively fewer effects, increasing the diving response in adulthood (10 µM), but not adolescence, and suppressing initial locomotor activity in the predator avoidance test (1-10 µM). These data indicate that neonicotinoid insecticides may carry some of the same risks for vertebrates posed by other classes of insecticides, and that these adverse behavioral consequences of early developmental exposure are evident well into adulthood.
37180892	Neurocytotoxicity of imidacloprid- and acetamiprid-based comercial insecticides over the differentiation of SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells.	Neonicotinoids are effective insecticides with specificity for invertebrate nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Neonicotinoids are chemically stable and tend to remain in the environment for long so concerns about their neurotoxicity in humans do nothing but increase. Herein, we evaluated the chronic toxic effects of acetamiprid- and imidacloprid-based insecticides over the differentiation of human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, which were exposed to these insecticides at a concentration range similar to that applied to crop fields (0.01-0.5 mM). Both insecticides did not have acute cytotoxic effects in both non-differentiated and in staurosporine-differentiated SH-SY5Y cells cytotoxicity as measured by the MTT and vital-dye exclusion tests. However, after a chronic (7-day) treatment, only imidacloprid dose-dependently decreased the viability of SH-SY5Y cells (F(4,39) = 43.05, <i>P</i> < 0.001), largely when administered-during cell differentiation (F(4,39) = 51.86, <i>P</i> < 0.001). A well-defined dose-response curve was constructed for imidacloprid on day 4 (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.945, EC<sub>50</sub> = 0.14 mM). During differentiation, either imidacloprid or acetamiprid dose-dependently caused neurite branch retraction on day 3, likely because of oxidative stress, to the extent that cells turned into spheres without neurites after 7-day treatment. Despite their apparent safety, the neurodevelopmental vulnerability of SH-SY5Y neurons to the chronic exposure to imidacloprid and to a lesser extent to acetamiprid points to a neurotoxic risk for humans.
37229902	Urinary neonicotinoid insecticides and adiposity measures among 7-year-old children in northern China: A cross-sectional study.	Neonicotinoid insecticides (NEOs) are emerging synthetic insecticides used in various pest management regimens worldwide. Toxicology studies have indicated the obesogenic potential of NEOs, but their associations with adiposity measures are largely unknown.
37336441	Maternal exposure to neonicotinoid insecticides and fetal growth restriction: A nested case-control study in the guangxi Zhuang birth cohort.	Fetal growth restriction (FGR) is a major determinant of perinatal morbidity and mortality, with adverse long-term neurocognitive effects in childhood and adulthood. Prenatal exposure to environmental pollutants has been reported to be associated with FGR. Neonicotinoids (NEOs) are extensively used insecticides worldwide and are suggested to have embryonic and developmental neurotoxicity. However, the effects of NEOs exposure on FGR is unknown.
37350525	Neuroprotective potential of berberine against acetamiprid induced toxicity in rats: Implication of oxidative stress, mitochondrial alterations, and structural changes in brain regions.	Acetamiprid (ACMP) is an extensively used neonicotinoid pesticide to control sucking and chewing insects and is known to cause nontarget toxicity. The present study aimed to evaluate the ameliorative potential of berberine (BBR)-a polyphenolic alkaloid- on ACMP-induced oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunctioning, and structural changes in different rat brain regions. The male Wistar rats were divided into four groups, that is, control, BBR-treated (150 mg/kg b.wt), ACMP-exposed (21.7 mg/kg b.wt) and BBR + ACMP co-treated; and were dosed intragastrically for 21 consecutive days. Results of the biochemical analysis showed that BBR significantly ameliorated ACMP-induced oxidative stress by decreasing lipid peroxidation and protein oxidation along with a marked increase in endogenous antioxidants and lowered AChE activity in rat brain regions. Inside mitochondria, BBR significantly attenuated the toxic effects of ACMP by increasing the activity of mitochondrial complexes. Findings of polymerase chain reaction also demonstrated the modulatory effects of BBR against ACMP-mediated downregulation of ND1, ND2, COX1, and COX4 subunits of mitochondrial complexes. The histopathological and ultrastructural examination also validated the biochemical and transcriptional alterations following toxicity of ACMP exposure and the protective potential of BBR against ACMP-induced neurotoxicity. Thus, the present study indicates the promising ameliorative potential of BBR against ACMP-induced neurotoxicity via its antioxidative and modulatory activities.
37352268	Comparative efficacy of chemical and botanical pediculicides in Thailand and 4% dimeticone against head louse, Pediculus humanus capitis.	Head louse infestations remain a global public-health concern due to increased resistance of lice to artificial pediculicides. In Thailand, there is a lack of comparative data on the current efficacy of pediculicides for treating head lice. In this study, we explored the status of botanical and toxic synthetic pediculicides with that of 4% dimeticone liquid gel for treating head lice in Thailand. The ex-vivo pediculicidal activity of various pediculicidal shampoos available at drugstores in Thailand was assessed and compared with that of 4% dimeticone liquid gel. The shampoos chosen were based on active ingredients toxic to lice (1% permethrin, 0.6% carbaryl, 0.15% Stemona root crude extract, or mixed plant extracts), whereas dimeticone acts physically on lice. We found that exposure to 4% dimeticone liquid gel following the manufacturer's instructions completely killed 100% of head lice in 15 min, whereas other pediculicide products failed to kill the great majority of head lice, whether treatment was for 10 min (resulting in 0% to 50.0% mortality) or 30 min (resulting in 17.0% to 60.0% mortality). We also extended a clinical assessment to confirm the efficacy of 1% permethrin for treating head lice in infested schoolchildren. In this clinical assessment, none of the 26 children treated with 1% permethrin shampoo achieved a cure after two applications. These results highlight that 4% dimeticone demonstrated a higher ex-vivo pediculicidal efficacy compared to both chemical and botanical pediculicides in Thailand. Conversely, 1% permethrin showed low efficacy in both laboratory and clinical assessments. Given its physical mode of action, 4% dimeticone merits consideration as an alternative treatment option for lice in Thailand, particularly in cases where treatment with toxic pediculicides has proven ineffective.
37356513	Individual and interactive biochemical profile damages in Labeo rohita (Cyprinidae) by imidacloprid and clothianidin.	Neonicotinoid insecticide residues are found frequently in different water resources, but the knowledge of their ecological consequences is scanty. The present research focused on one-third of the LC<sub>50</sub> concentration of the two neonicotinoids imidacloprid (66.6 mg/L) and clothianidin (30 mg/L) individually and a mixture (range of 33.3 + 15 mg/L) were exposed to Labeo rohita for 42 days. The investigation evaluated the single and combined insecticidal antagonistic effects on fish cholinesterases (AChE and BChE), oxidative stress activities, and DNA damage (8-OHdG) after intoxication. The imidacloprid (IMI), clothianidin (CLO), and combination intoxication significantly reduced AChE and BChE enzyme activities in the brain, muscle, and serum. The highest levels of AChE inhibition were found in the muscle and brain, whereas the highest levels of BChE were seen in the serum and muscle in the mixed group. The enzymatic and non-enzymatic oxidative activities in the brain and liver varied, with significant increases in superoxide dismutase, catalase activities, lipid peroxidation levels, glutathione S-transferase activity, and a decreasing trend in reduced glutathione levels compared to controls. The 8-OHdG activity increased significantly in proportion to exposure time, while the liver showed the highest increase, followed by the brain in the mixture group. Long-period exposure to neonicotinoids can cause severe neurotoxicity by inhibiting cholinesterase, altering antioxidant activities, and inducing DNA damage (increasing 8-OHdG). The results showed that clothianidin is more toxic than imidacloprid as a single active ingredient, whereas the mixture of two insecticides is more toxic than the single active ingredients.
37505564	Screening of Toxic Effects of Neonicotinoid Insecticides with a Focus on Acetamiprid: A Review.	Recently, neonicotinoids have become the fastest-growing class of insecticides in conventional crop protection, with extensive usage against a wide range of sucking and chewing pests. Neonicotinoids are widely used due to their high toxicity to invertebrates, simplicity, flexibility with which they may be applied, and lengthy persistence, and their systemic nature ensures that they spread to all sections of the target crop. However, these properties raise the risk of environmental contaminations and potential toxicity to non-target organisms. Acetamiprid is a new generation insecticide, which is a safer alternative for controlling insect pests because of its low toxicity to honeybees. Acetamiprid is intended to target nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in insects, but its widespread usage has resulted in negative impacts on non-target animals such as mammals. This review summarizes in vivo and in vitro animal studies that investigated the toxicity of specific neonicotinoids. With summarized data, it can be presumed that certain concentrations of neonicotinoids in the reproductive system cause oxidative stress in the testis; spermatogenesis disruption; spermatozoa degradation; interruptions to endocrine function and Sertoli and Leydig cell function. In the female reproductive system, acetamiprid evokes pathomorphological alterations in follicles, along with metabolic changes in the ovaries.
37544714	Transgenerational effects of developmental neurotoxicity induced by exposure to a no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) of neonicotinoid pesticide clothianidin.	Neonicotinoid pesticides (NNs) transfer rapidly from mother to offspring, which exhibit neurobehavioral effects. However, no studies have investigated NNs' transgenerational effects. We exposed F0 generation mice (mothers) to a no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) of clothianidin (CLO) during gestation and lactation, and examined the adult neurobehavioral effects of three generations of offspring (F1, F2, F3). F1 had lower birth weight, decreased locomotor activity, and increased anxiety-like behavior. In F2, body weight was affected, and there was a decreasing trend in locomotor activity and an increasing trend in anxiety-like behavior. In F3, locomotor activity tended to increase. Thus, even when only the mothers were exposed, the effects of CLOs were still observed in F1, F2, and F3 but the effects became smaller.
37591395	Chemical occurrence of pesticides and transformation products in two small lentic waterbodies at the head of agricultural watersheds and biological responses in caged Gasterosteus aculeatus.	Recent monitoring campaigns have revealed the presence of mixtures of pesticides and their transformation products (TP) in headwater streams situated within agricultural catchments. These observations were attributed to the use of various agrochemicals in surrounding regions. The aim of this work was to compare the application of chemical and ecotoxicological tools for assessing environmental quality in relation to pesticide and TP contamination. It was achieved by deploying these methodologies in two small lentic water bodies located at the top of two agricultural catchments, each characterized by distinct agricultural practices (ALT: organic, CHA: conventional). Additionally, the results make it possible to assess the impact of contamination on fish caged in situ. Pesticides and TP were measured in water using active and passive samplers and suspended solid particles. Eighteen biomarkers (innate immune responses, oxidative stress, biotransformation, neurotoxicity, genotoxicity, and endocrine disruption) were measured in Gasterosteus aculeatus encaged in situ. More contaminants were detected in CHA, totaling 25 compared to 14 in ALT. Despite the absence of pesticide application in the ALT watershed for the past 14 years, 7 contaminants were quantified in 100 % of the water samples. Among these contaminants, 6 were TPs (notably atrazine-2-hydroxy, present at a concentration exceeding 300 ng·L<sup>-1</sup>), and 1 was a current pesticide, prosulfocarb, whose mobility should prompt more caution and new regulations to protect adjacent ecosystems and crops. Regarding the integrated biomarker response (IBRv2), caged fish was similarly impacted in ALT and CHA. Variations in biomarker responses were highlighted depending on the site, but the results did not reveal whether one site is of better quality than the other. This outcome was likely attributed to the occurrence of contaminant mixtures in both sites. The main conclusions revealed that chemical and biological tools complement each other to better assess the environmental quality of wetlands such as ponds.
37598846	Pesticides as a potential independent childhood leukemia risk factor and as a potential confounder for electromagnetic fields exposure.	Both pesticides and high magnetic fields are suspected to be childhood leukemia risk factors. Pesticides are utilized at commercial plant nurseries, which sometimes occupy the areas underneath high-voltage powerlines.
38091671	Effects of cylindrospermopsin, chlorpyrifos and their combination in a SH-SY5Y cell model concerning developmental neurotoxicity.	The cyanotoxin cylindrospermopsin (CYN) has been postulated to cause neurotoxicity, although the studies in this concern are very few. In addition, some studies in vitro indicate its possible effects on development. Furthermore, pesticides can be present in the same environmental samples as cyanotoxins. Therefore, chlorpyrifos (CPF) has been one of the most common pesticides used worldwide. The aim of this report was to study the effects of CYN, isolated and in combination with CPF, in a developmental neurotoxicity in vitro model. The human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cell line was exposed during 6 days of differentiation to both toxics to study their effects on cell viability and neurite outgrowth. To further evaluate effects of both toxicants on cholinergic signaling, their agonistic and antagonistic activities on the α7 homomeric nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) were studied upon acute exposure. Moreover, a transcriptomic analysis by qPCR was performed after 6 days of CYN-exposure during differentiation. The results showed a concentration-dependent decrease on both cell viability and neurite outgrowth for both toxics isolated, leading to effective concentration 20 (EC<sub>20</sub>) values of 0.35 µM and 0.097 µM for CYN on cell viability and neurite outgrowth, respectively, and 100 µM and 58 µM for CPF, while the combination demonstrated no significant variations. In addition, 95 µM and 285 µM CPF demonstrated to act as an antagonist to nicotine on the nAChR, although CYN up to 2.4 µM had no effect on the efficacy of these receptors. Additionally, the EC<sub>20</sub> for CYN (0.097 µM) on neurite outgrowth downregulated expression of the 5 genes NTNG2 (netrin G2), KCNJ11 (potassium channel), SLC18A3 (vesicular acetylcholine transporter), APOE (apolipoprotein E), and SEMA6B (semaphorin 6B), that are all important for neuronal development. Thus, this study points out the importance of studying the effects of CYN in terms of neurotoxicity and developmental neurotoxicity.
38108941	Hesperidin counteracts chlorpyrifos-induced neurotoxicity by regulating oxidative stress, inflammation, and apoptosis in rats.	Chlorpyrifos (CPF), considered one of the most potent organophosphates, causes a variety of human disorders including neurotoxicity. The current study was designed to evaluate the efficacy of hesperidin (HSP) in ameliorating CPF-induced neurotoxicity in rats. In the study, rats were treated with HSP (orally, 50 and 100 mg/kg) 30 min after giving CPF (orally, 6.75 mg/kg) for 28 consecutive days. Molecular, biochemical, and histological methods were used to investigate cholinergic enzymes, oxidative stress, inflammation, and apoptosis in the brain tissue. CPF intoxication resulted in inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butrylcholinesterase (BChE) enzymes, reduced antioxidant status [superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and glutathione (GSH)], and elevation of malondialdehyde (MDA) levels and carbonic anhydrase (CA) activities. CPF increased histopathological changes and immunohistochemical expressions of 8-OHdG in brain tissue. CPF also increased levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) while decreased levels of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf-2), heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 alpha (PGC-1α). Furthermore, CPF increased mRNA transcript levels of caspase-3, Bax, PARP-1, and VEGF, which are associated with apoptosis and endothelial damage in rat brain tissues. HSP treatment was found to protect brain tissue by reducing CPF-induced neurotoxicity. Overall, this study supports that HSP can be used to reduce CPF-induced neurotoxicity.
38145670	Urinary biomarkers of exposure to organophosphate, pyrethroid, neonicotinoid insecticides and oxidative stress: A repeated measurement analysis among pregnant women.	Exposure to insecticides may be associated with increased oxidative stress (OS), but few studies have assessed the associations of OS biomarkers (OSBs) with exposure to multiple insecticides and their mixture, especially in pregnant women who are a vulnerable population. In the present study, 1,094 Chinese pregnant women were recruited and a total of 3,282 urine samples were collected at their three trimesters to measure eight metabolites of organophosphates, three metabolites of pyrethroids, nine typical neonicotinoids/their metabolites, and three OSBs of DNA damage (8-OHdG), RNA damage (8-OHG), and lipid peroxidation (HNE-MA). Among the twenty target insecticide metabolites, sixteen of them were frequently detected; thirteen of them were detected in over 86% of all the urine samples except for imidacloprid (IMI, detection frequency: 72.9%), desnitro-imidacloprid (DN-IMI, 70.0%), and clothianidin (CLO, 79.6%). The reproducibility of their concentrations across the three trimesters was poor to fair (intraclass correlation coefficients <0.50). Multiparity and warm season were related to higher urinary levels of some insecticide metabolites, while higher education level and inadequate weight gain during pregnancy were significantly associated with lower concentrations of certain insecticide metabolites. Linear mixed model analyses suggested that almost all the frequently detected insecticide metabolites [other than 3-phenoxybenzoic acid (3-PBA)] were significantly associated with elevated levels of the three OSBs (8-OHdG, 8-OHG, and HNE-MA), where the percent change (Δ%) ranged 8.10-36.0% for 8-OHdG, 8.49-34.7% for 8-OHG, and 5.92-182% for HNE-MA, respectively, with each interquartile ratio (IQR)-fold increase in the concentrations of the individual exposure biomarkers. Weighted quantile sum models demonstrated that the insecticide metabolite mixture was positively associated with the three OSBs. Overall, urinary desmethyl-clothianidin (DM-CLO) and 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol (TCPy) were the top insecticide exposure biomarkers contributing to the association with 8-OHdG and 8-OHG levels, while PNP contributed the most to the association with HNE-MA levels. These findings suggested that gestational exposure to organophosphates, pyrethroids, neonicotinoids, their transformation products, and their mixture may increase oxidative damage to lipids, RNA, and DNA during pregnancy.
38239268	Bupropion and varenicline administration reversed depressive behavior induced by acetamiprid exposure in mice: the role of nAChRs in depression.	Acetamiprid (ACE), is a popular neonicotinoid pesticide, that has a high affinity for mammalian nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). Therefore, ACE might induce depressive effects by perturbing the cholinergic system in mammalian. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of ACE exposure on depressive-like behaviors and grip strength (GS) in mice. Also the possible role of nAChR activation in depression was assessed by varenicline, and bupropion. Male Swiss mice (27 ± 2 g) were daily exposed to ACE by gavage (0.1, 1, 5 mg/kg), behavioral tests took place after 3 h, 7 days and 15 days, the subacute ACE (0.1 mg/kg) exposure was assessed after 30 days. Varenicline (0.5 mg/kg) or bupropion (4 mg/kg) were injected intraperitoneally 30 min prior exposure to (1 mg/kg) ACE. The locomotor activity, forced swimming test (FST), and sucrose preference (SP) test were assessed. After a week ACE dose dependently increased the immobility time during FST, and after 15 days' depressive behavior was observed equally for ACE (0.1-5 mg/kg). The subacute exposure (0.1 mg/kg) significantly increased the immobility time, SP also declined that revealed anhedonia. These behavioral changes showed that ACE can initiate depressive effects. The changes in locomotor activity were not significant. GS significantly reduced following a week of exposure to ACE (1-5 mg/kg) that indicated neurotoxicity. These effects were antagonized by bupropion or varenicline, thus ACE effect on nAChRs was essential in initiating the depressive behavior.
38347791	Neuroprotective Effects of Curcumin against Chronic Chlorpyrifos- Induced Oxidative Damage in Rat Brain Tissue.	Chlorpyrifos (CPF) is an organophosphate pesticide that inhibits acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity. Investigations have also focused on its neurotoxicity, which is independent of AChE inhibition. Here, we evaluated the effect of CPF on oxidative indices in the brain tissue and explored the protective effect of curcumin (Cur) against its toxicity.
38376791	Molecular Docking Analysis at the Human α7-nAChR and Proliferative and Evoked-Calcium Changes in SH-SY5Y Cells by Imidacloprid and Acetamiprid Insecticides.	Acetamiprid (ACE) and Imidacloprid (IMI) are widely-used neonicotinoid insecticides (NNIs) with functional activity at human acetylcholine nicotinic receptors and, therefore, with putative toxic effects. The objective of this study was the evaluation of the interactions between NNIs and α7-nAChR, as this receptor keeps intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) to an optimum for an adequate neuronal functioning. Possible interactions between NNIs and the cryo-EM structure of the human α-7 nAChR were identified by molecular docking. Additionally, NNI effects were analyzed in neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, as they naturally express α-7 nAChRs. Functional studies included proliferative/cytotoxic effects (MTT test) in undifferentiated SH-SY-5Y cells and indirect measurements of [Ca2+]i transients in retinoic acid-differentiated SH-SY-5Y cells loaded with Fluo-4 AM. Docking analysis showed that the binding of IMI and ACE occurred at the same aromatic cage that the specific α-7 nAChR agonist EVP-6124. IMI showed a better docking strength than ACE. According to the MTT assays, low doses (10-50 µM) of IMI better than ACE stimulated neuroblastoma cell proliferation. At higher doses (250-500 µM), IMI also prevailed over ACE and dose-dependently triggered more abrupt fluorescence changes due to [Ca2+]i mobilization in differentiated SH-SY5Y neurons. Indeed, only IMI blunted nicotine-evoked intracellular fluorescence stimulation (i.e., nicotine cross-desensitization). Summarizing, IMI demonstrated a superior docking strength and more robust cellular responses compared to ACE, which were likely associated with a stronger activity at α-7nAChRs. Through the interaction with α-7nAChRs, IMI would demonstrate its high neurotoxic potential for humans. More research is needed for investigating the proliferative effects of IMI in neuroblastoma cells.
38404712	Investigating open access new approach methods (NAM) to assess biological points of departure: A case study with 4 neurotoxic pesticides.	Open access new approach methods (NAM) in the US EPA ToxCast program and NTP Integrated Chemical Environment (ICE) were used to investigate activities of four neurotoxic pesticides: endosulfan, fipronil, propyzamide and carbaryl. Concordance of <i>in vivo</i> regulatory points of departure (POD) adjusted for interspecies extrapolation (AdjPOD) to modelled human Administered Equivalent Dose (AED<sub>Human</sub>) was assessed using 3-compartment or Adult/Fetal PBTK <i>in vitro</i> to <i>in vivo</i> extrapolation. Model inputs were from Tier 1 (High throughput transcriptomics: HTTr, high throughput phenotypic profiling: HTPP) and Tier 2 (single target: ToxCast) assays. HTTr identified gene expression signatures associated with potential neurotoxicity for endosulfan, propyzamide and carbaryl in non-neuronal MCF-7 and HepaRG cells. The HTPP assay in U-2 OS cells detected potent effects on DNA endpoints for endosulfan and carbaryl, and mitochondria with fipronil (propyzamide was inactive). The most potent ToxCast assays were concordant with specific components of each chemical mode of action (MOA). Predictive adult IVIVE models produced fold differences (FD) < 10 between the AED<sub>Human</sub> and the measured <i>in vivo</i> AdjPOD. The 3-compartment model was concordant (i.e., smallest FD) for endosulfan, fipronil and carbaryl, and PBTK was concordant for propyzamide. The most potent AED<sub>Human</sub> predictions for each chemical showed HTTr, HTPP and ToxCast were mainly concordant with <i>in vivo</i> AdjPODs but assays were less concordant with MOAs. This was likely due to the cell types used for testing and/or lack of metabolic capabilities and pathways available <i>in vivo</i>. The Fetal PBTK model had larger FDs than adult models and was less predictive overall.
38470098	Non-acute exposure of neonicotinoids, health risk assessment, and evidence integration: a systematic review.	Neonicotinoid pesticides are utilized against an extensive range of insects. A growing body of evidence supports that these neuro-active insecticides are classified as toxicants in invertebrates. However, there is limited published data regarding their toxicity in vertebrates and mammals. the current systematic review is focused on the up-to-date knowledge available for several neonicotinoid pesticides and their non-acute toxicity on rodents and human physiology. Oral lethal dose 50 (LD<sub>50</sub>) of seven neonicotinoids (i.e. imidacloprid, acetamiprid, clothianidin, dinotefuran, thiamethoxam, thiacloprid, and nitenpyram) was initially identified. Subsequently, a screening of the literature was conducted to collect information about non-acute exposure to these insecticides. 99 studies were included and assessed for their risk of bias and level of evidence according to the Office of Health and Translation (OHAT) framework. All the 99 included papers indicate evidence of reproductive toxicity, hepatotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, neurotoxicity, immunotoxicity, and oxidative stress induction with a high level of evidence in the health effect of rodents and a moderate level of evidence for human health. The most studied type of these insecticides among 99 papers was imidacloprid (55 papers), followed by acetamiprid (22 papers), clothianidin (21 papers), and thiacloprid (11 papers). While 10 of 99 papers assessed the relationship between clothianidin, thiamethoxam, dinotefuran, and nitenpyram, showing evidence of liver injury, dysfunctions of oxidative stress markers in the reproductive system, and intestinal toxicity. This systematic review provides a comprehensive overview of the potential risks caused by neonicotinoid insecticides to humans and rodents with salient health effects. However, further research is needed to better emphasize and understand the patho-physiological mechanisms of these insecticides, taking into account various factors that can influence their toxicity.
38581179	Decreases in the number of microglia and neural circuit dysfunction elicited by developmental exposure to neonicotinoid pesticides in mice.	Neonicotinoids are insecticides widely used in the world. Although neonicotinoids are believed to be toxic only to insects, their developmental neurotoxicity in mammals is a concern. Therefore, we examined the effects of developmental exposure to neonicotinoids on immune system in the brain and post-developmental behaviors in this study. Imidacloprid or clothianidin was orally administered to dams at a dosage of 0.1 mg/kg/day from embryonic day 11 to postnatal day 21. Imidacloprid decreased sociability, and both imidacloprid and clothianidin decreased locomotor activity and induced anxiety, depression and abnormal repetitive behaviors after the developmental period. There was no change in the number of neurons in the hippocampus of mice exposed to imidacloprid. However, the number and activity of microglia during development were significantly decreased by imidacloprid exposure. Imidacloprid also induced neural circuit dysfunction in the CA1 and CA3 regions of the hippocampus during the early postnatal period. Exposure to imidacloprid suppressed the expression of csf1r during development. Collectively, these results suggest that developmental exposure to imidacloprid decreases the number and activity of microglia, which can cause neural circuit dysfunction and abnormal behaviors after the developmental period. Care must be taken to avoid exposure to neonicotinoids, especially during development.
38599286	Effects of acute insecticide exposure on neuronal activity in vitro in rat cortical cultures.	Exposure to pesticides, such as carbamates, organophosphates, organochlorines and pyrethroids, has been linked to various health problems, including neurotoxicity. Although most in vivo studies use only male rodents, some studies have shown in vivo sex-specific effects after acute exposure. Since in vivo studies are costly and require a large number of animals, in vitro assays that take sex-specific effects into account are urgently needed. We therefore assessed the acute effects of exposure to different carbamates (methomyl, aldicarb and carbaryl), organophosphates (chlorpyrifos (CPF), chlorpyrifos-oxon (CPO) and 3,5,6-trichloropyridinol), organochlorines (endosulfan, dieldrin and lindane) and pyrethroids (permethrin, alpha-cypermethrin and 3-phenoxy-benzoic acid (3-PBA)) on neuronal network function in sex-separated rat primary cortical cultures using micro-electrode array (MEA) recordings. Our results indicate that exposure to the carbamate carbaryl and the organophosphates CPF and CPO decreased neuronal activity, with CPO being the most potent. Notably, (network) burst patterns differed between CPF and CPO, with CPO inducing fewer, but more intense (network) bursts. Exposure to low micromolar levels of endosulfan induced a hyperexcitation, most likely due to the antagonistic effects on GABA receptors. Interestingly, females were more sensitive to endosulfan than males. Exposure to dieldrin and lindane also increased neuronal activity, albeit less than endosulfan and without sex-specific effects. Exposure to type I pyrethroid permethrin increased neuronal activity, while exposure to type II pyrethroid alpha-cypermethrin strongly decreased neuronal activity. The increase seen after permethrin exposure was more pronounced in males than in females. Together, these results show that acute exposure to different classes of pesticides exerts differential effects on neuronal activity. Moreover, it shows that MEA recordings are suited to detect sex-specific neurotoxic effects in vitro.
38799264	Associations between neonicotinoids and liver function measures in US adults: National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2015-2016.	Toxicological studies indicate that neonicotinoids may be associated with disruptions in liver function due to an increase in oxidative stress. There are scant epidemiological studies investigating the chronic hepatotoxic effects of neonicotinoids.
38815349	Fluoxetine attenuates chlorpyrifos-induced neuronal injury through the PPARγ, SIRT1, NF-κB, and JAK1/STAT3 signals.	Chlorpyrifos (CPF) is a widely used organophosphate insecticide in agriculture and homes. Exposure to organophosphates is associated with neurotoxicity. Fluoxetine (FLX) is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) that is widely prescribed for depression and anxiety disorders. Studies have shown that FLX has neuroprotective, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and antiapoptotic effects. The molecular mechanisms underlying FLX are not fully understood. This work aimed to investigate the potential neuroprotective effect of FLX on CPF-induced neurotoxicity and the underlying molecular mechanisms involved. Thirty-two rats were randomly divided into four groups: (I) the vehicle control group; (II) the FLX-treated group (10 mg/kg/day for 28 days, p.o); (III) the CPF-treated group (10 mg/kg for 28 days); and (IV) the FLX+CPF group. FLX attenuated CPF-induced neuronal injury, as evidenced by a significant decrease in Aβ and p-Tau levels and attenuation of cerebral and hippocampal histological abrasion injury induced by CPF. FLX ameliorated neuronal oxidative stress, effectively reduced MDA production, and restored SOD and GSH levels through the coactivation of the PPARγ and SIRT1 proteins. FLX counteracted the neuronal inflammation induced by CPF by decreasing MPO, NO, TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6 levels by suppressing NF-κB and JAK1/STAT3 activation. The antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties of FLX help to prevent CPF-induced neuronal intoxication.
38818490	The potential neuroprotective of luteolin against acetamiprid-induced neurotoxicity in the rat cerebral cortex.	Acetamiprid is a class of neuroactive insecticides widely used to control insect pests. The current study aimed to investigate the potential neuroprotective effects of luteolin against acetamiprid-induced neurotoxicity in the rat cerebral cortex. Four equal groups of adult male rats (10 in each): control, acetamiprid (40 mg/kg for 28 days), luteolin (50 mg/kg for 28 days), and acetamiprid+luteolin cotreatment were used. Acetamiprid was shown to alter the oxidative state by increasing oxidant levels [nitric oxide (NO) and malondialdehyde (MDA)] and decreasing antioxidants [glutathione (GSH), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GR), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and catalase-(CAT)], with increased activity of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2-(Nrf2). Likewise, acetamiprid increases the inflammatory response, as evidenced by increased interleukin-1β (IL-1β), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and nuclear factor kappa B-(NF-κB). In contrast, the treatment with luteolin brought these markers back to levels close to normal, showing that it protects neurocytes from oxidative damage and the neuroinflammation effects of acetamiprid-induced inflammation. Luteolin also demonstrated a neuroprotective role via the modulation of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in the cerebral cortex tissue. Histopathology showed severe neurodegenerative changes, and apoptotic cells were seen in the acetamiprid-induced cerebral cortex layer, which was evident by increased protein expression levels of Bax and caspase-3 and decreased Bcl-2 levels. Histochemistry confirmed the neuronal degeneration, as proven by the change in neurocyte colour from brown to black when stained with a silver stain. Luteolin may have a neuroprotective effect against biochemical and histopathological changes induced by acetamiprid in the rat cerebral cortex.
38875860	Combined stress of an insecticide and heatwaves or elevated temperature induce community and food web effects in a Mediterranean freshwater ecosystem.	Ongoing global climate change will shift nature towards Anthropocene's unprecedented conditions by increasing average temperatures and the frequency and severity of extreme events, such as heatwaves. While such climatic changes pose an increased threat for freshwater ecosystems, other stressors like pesticides may interact with warming and lead to unpredictable effects. Studies that examine the underpinned mechanisms of multiple stressor effects are scarce and often lack environmental realism. Here, we conducted a multiple stressors experiment using outdoor freshwater mesocosms with natural assemblages of macroinvertebrates, zooplankton, phytoplankton, macrophytes, and microbes. The effects of the neonicotinoid insecticide imidacloprid (1 µg/L) were investigated in combination with three temperature scenarios representing ambient, elevated temperatures (+4 °C), and heatwaves (+0 to 8 °C), the latter two having similar energy input. We found similar imidacloprid dissipation patterns for all temperature treatments with lowest average dissipation half-lives under both warming scenarios (DT<sub>50</sub>: 3 days) and highest under ambient temperatures (DT<sub>50</sub>: 4 days) throughout the experiment. Amongst all communities, only the zooplankton community was significantly affected by the combined treatments. This community demonstrated low chemical sensitivity with lagged and significant negative imidacloprid effects only for cyclopoids. Heatwaves caused early and long-lasting significant effects on the zooplankton community as compared to elevated temperatures, with Polyarthra, Daphnia longispina, Lecanidae, and cyclopoids being the most negatively affected taxa, whereas Ceriodaphnia and nauplii showed positive responses to temperature. Community recovery from imidacloprid stress was slower under heatwaves, suggesting temperature-enhanced toxicity. Finally, microbial and macrofauna litter degradation were significantly enhanced by temperature, whereas the latter was also negatively affected by imidacloprid. A structural equation model depicted cascading food web effects of both stressors with stronger relationships and significant negative stressor effects at higher than at lower trophic levels. Our study highlights the threat of a series of heatwaves compared to elevated temperatures for imidacloprid-stressed freshwaters.
38879021	Temporal and spatial trends of imidacloprid-related hazards in France.	Neonicotinoids are the top-selling insecticides worldwide. Because of their method of use, mainly to coat seeds, neonicotinoids have been found to widely contaminate the environment. Their high toxicity has been shown to be a major concern in terms of impact on biodiversity, and the use of these insecticides has been associated with population declines of species in different countries. Despite the widespread recognition of the risk of neonicotinoids to biodiversity, their temporal and spatial use remains poorly known in many countries. Yet this information is essential to address the potential impacts of these pesticides on biodiversity and to inform measures to establish protected areas or biodiversity restoration. The present study relied a large publicly available dataset to characterise the temporal and spatial use in France of imidacloprid, the most widely used neonicotinoid worldwide, as well as analysed water contamination surveys between 2005 and 2022 to assess the contamination of the environment. The results show that imidacloprid was the main neonicotinoid used in France over the study period. This use was spatially structured, with higher use in northern and western France, particularly related to cereal and beet crops area. The water contamination survey indicated that imidacloprid has widely contaminated the environment and consequently increased the risk to biodiversity, especially in counties crossed by the Loire, Seine and Vilaine rivers. This risk increased between 2005 and 2018 due to the higher use of imidacloprid and decreased sharply after 2018 due to its ban, although it was reauthorized by derogation for sugar beet in 2021. This study is the first assessment of imidacloprid pressure on biodiversity in France and shows the spatial and temporal correlation between agricultural practices and the freshwater contamination level. These results will help to identify priority areas for mitigation and restoration measures.
38879316	Effects of imidacloprid combined with validamycin on the population fitness and symbiotic of Nilaparvata lugens (Hemiptera: Delphacidae).	Using a high-efficiency insecticide in combination with fungicides that have different mechanisms of action is a conventional method in the current management of brown planthopper (BPH) resistance. In this study, we investigate the separate and combined effects of the low-toxicity fungicide validamycin and the non-cross-resistant insecticide imidacloprid on the fitness and symbiosis of BPH. These research results indicate that when the proportion of active ingredients in validamycin is combined with imidacloprid at a ratio of 1:30, the toxicity ratio and co-toxicity coefficient are 1.34 and 691.73, respectively, suggesting that the combination has a synergistic effect on the control of BPH. The number of yeast-like symbiotic (YLS) and dominant symbiotic (Noda) in the imidacloprid + validamycin groups were significantly lower than the other three treatment groups (validamycin, imidacloprid, and water). The results of the study on population fitness show that the lifespan of the BPH population in validamycin, imidacloprid, and imidacloprid + validamycin was shortened. Notably, the BPH populations in the imidacloprid + validamycin groups were significantly lower than other groups in terms of average generation cycle, intrinsic growth rate, net reproduction rate, finite rate of increase, and fitness. The Real-time quantitative PCR showed that validamycin and imidacloprid + validamycin can significantly inhibit the expression of the farnesyl diphosphate farnesyl transferase gene (EC2.5.1.21) and uricase gene (EC1.7.3.3), with imidacloprid + validamycin demonstrating the most pronounced inhibitory effect. Our research results can provide insights and approaches for delaying resistance and integrated management of BPH.
38879340	microRNA-3037 targeting CYP6CY2 confers imidacloprid resistance to Sitobion miscanthi (Takahashi).	The wheat aphid Sitobion miscanthi is a dominant and destructive pest in agricultural production. Insecticides are the main substances used for effective control of wheat aphids. However, their extensive application has caused severe resistance of wheat aphids to some insecticides; therefore, exploring resistance mechanisms is essential for wheat aphid management. In the present study, CYP6CY2, a new P450 gene, was isolated and overexpressed in the imidacloprid-resistant strain (SM-R) compared to the imidacloprid-susceptible strain (SM-S). The increased sensitivity of S. miscanthi to imidacloprid after knockdown of CYP6CY2 indicates that it could be associated with imidacloprid resistance. Subsequently, the posttranscriptional regulation of CYP6CY2 in the 3' UTR by miR-3037 was confirmed, and CYP6CY2 participated in imidacloprid resistance. This finding is critical for determining the role of P450 in relation to the resistance of S. miscanthi to imidacloprid. It is of great significance to understand this regulatory mechanism of P450 expression in the resistance of S. miscanthi to neonicotinoids.
38896196	Exploring Astrocytes Involvement and Glutamate Induced Neuroinflammation in Chlorpyrifos-Induced Paradigm Of Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD).	Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are neurodevelopmental disorders manifested mainly in children, with symptoms ranging from social/communication deficits and stereotypies to associated behavioral anomalies like anxiety, depression, and ADHD. While the patho-mechanism is not well understood, the role of neuroinflammation has been suggested. Nevertheless, the triggers giving rise to this neuroinflammation have not previously been explored in detail, so the present study was aimed at exploring the role of glutamate on these processes, potentially carried out through increased activity of inflammatory cells like astrocytes, and a decline in neuronal health. A novel chlorpyrifos-induced paradigm of ASD in rat pups was used for the present study. The animals were subjected to tests assessing their neonatal development and adolescent behaviors (social skills, stereotypies, sensorimotor deficits, anxiety, depression, olfactory, and pain perception). Markers for inflammation and the levels of molecules involved in glutamate excitotoxicity, and neuroinflammation were also measured. Additionally, the expression of reactive oxygen species and markers of neuronal inflammation (GFAP) and function (c-Fos) were evaluated, along with an assessment of histopathological alterations. Based on these evaluations, it was found that postnatal administration of CPF had a negative impact on neurobehavior during both the neonatal and adolescent phases, especially on developmental markers, and brought about the generation of ASD-like symptoms. This was further corroborated by elevations in the expression of glutamate and downstream calcium, as well as certain cytokines and neuroinflammatory markers, and validated through histopathological and immunohistochemical results showing a decline in neuronal health in an astrocyte-mediated cytokine-dependent fashion. Through our findings, conclusive evidence regarding the involvement of glutamate in neuroinflammatory pathways implicated in the development of ASD-like symptoms, as well as its ability to activate further downstream processes linked to neuronal damage has been obtained. The role of astrocytes and the detrimental effect on neuronal health are also concluded. The significance of our study and its findings lies in the evaluation of the involvement of chlorpyrifos-induced neurotoxicity in the development of ASD, particularly in relation to glutamatergic dysfunction and neuronal damage.
38896413	Environmental presence and toxicological outcomes of the herbicide pendimethalin in teleost fish.	Herbicides are often detected in aquatic ecosystems due to residential and agricultural applications and can harm aquatic organisms once deposited into water systems. Pendimethalin is part of the dinitroaniline chemical family and is applied to crops like corn, legumes, potatoes, and soybeans. The potential toxicity of pendimethalin to aquatic species is understudied compared to other widely studied herbicides, like atrazine and glyphosate. The objectives of this review were to (1) collate information on sub-lethal responses to pendimethalin exposure in fish, (2) evaluate how exposure studies relate to environmental concentrations, and (3) identify putative bioindicators for exposure studies. Overall, studies reporting pendimethalin in water systems worldwide indicate a range of 100-300 ng/L, but levels have been reported as high as ~15 µg/g in sediment. In teleost fish, studies demonstrate developmental toxicity, immunotoxicity, and behavioral disruptions. The strongest evidence for pendimethalin-induced toxicity involves oxidative stress, although studies often test toxicity at higher concentrations than environmentally relevant levels. Using the Comparative Toxicogenomics Database, pathway analysis reveals linkages to neurotoxicity and mechanisms of neurodegeneration like "Ubiquitin Dependent Protein Degradation", "Microtubule Cytoskeleton", "Protein Oxidation and Aggregation in Aging", and "Parkinson's Disease". Other prominent pathways included those related to mTOR signaling and reproduction. Thus, two potential mechanisms underlying pendimethalin-induced toxicity in fish include the neural and reproductive systems. This review synthesizes current data regarding environmental fate and ecotoxicology of pendimethalin in teleost fish and points to some putative physiological and molecular responses that may be beneficial for assessing toxicity of the herbicide in future investigations.
38942275	Effects of the insecticide imidacloprid on aquatic invertebrate communities of the Ecuadorian Amazon.	Imidacloprid is a neonicotinoid insecticide that has received particular attention due to its widespread use and potential adverse effects for aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. Its toxicity to aquatic organisms has been evaluated in central and southern Europe as well as in (sub-)tropical regions of Africa and Asia, showing high toxic potential for some aquatic insects and zooplankton taxa. However, its toxicity to aquatic organisms representative of tropical regions of Latin America has never been evaluated. To fill this knowledge gap, we carried out a mesocosm experiment to assess the short- and long-term effects of imidacloprid on freshwater invertebrate communities representative of the Ecuadorian Amazon. A mesocosm experiment was conducted with five weekly applications of imidacloprid at four nominal concentrations (0.01 μg/L, 0.1 μg/L, 1 μg/L and 10 μg/L). Toxic effects were evaluated on zooplankton and macroinvertebrate populations and communities, as well as on water quality parameters for 70 days. Given the climatic conditions prevailing in the study area, characterized by a high solar radiation and abundant rainfall that resulted in mesocosm overflow, there was a rapid dissipation of the test compound from the water column (half-life: 4 days). The macroinvertebrate taxa Callibaetis pictus (Ephemeroptera), Chironomus sp. (Diptera), and the zooplankton taxon Macrocyclops sp., showed population declines caused by the imidacloprid treatment, with a 21-d Time Weighted Average No Observed Effect Concentrations (21-d TWA NOEC) of 0.46 μg/L, except for C. pictus which presented a 21-d TWA NOEC of 0.05 μg/L. In general terms, the sensitivity of these taxa to imidacloprid was greater than that reported for surrogate taxa in temperate zones and similar to that reported in other (sub-)tropical regions. These results confirm the high sensitivity of tropical aquatic invertebrates to this compound and suggest the need to establish regulations for the control of imidacloprid contamination in Amazonian freshwater ecosystems.
38950739	Heterologous expression and characterization of two delta glutathione S-transferases genes involved in imidacloprid metabolism in Grapholita molesta.	Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are multifunctional enzymes, and insect GSTs play a pivotal role in the metabolism of insecticides. Grapholita molesta is a worldwide pest that causes substantial economic losses to the fruit industry. However, it remains unclear how imidacloprid, a commonly used insecticide in orchards, is metabolized by G. molesta. In the present study, the synergist diethyl maleate (DEM), which inhibits the GST activity, exhibited a 22-fold synergistic ratio against imidacloprid. Two new GST genes, GmGSTD2 (OR096251) and GmGSTD3 (OR096252), were identified and successfully cloned, showing the highest expression in the Malpighian tubes. Knockdown of GmGSTD2 and GmGSTD3 by RNA interference, increased the mortality of G. molesta from 28% to 47% following imidacloprid treatment. Both recombinant GmGSTD2 and GmGSTD3 proteins exhibited 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) activity and could be inhibited by imidacloprid in vitro, with maximum inhibition was 60% for GmGSTD2 and 80% for GmGSTD3. These results suggested that GSTs participate in the metabolism of imidacloprid with GmGSTD2 and GmGSTD3 playing key roles in this process.
38980489	Changes in the proteome of Apis mellifera acutely exposed to sublethal dosage of glyphosate and imidacloprid.	Uncontrolled use of pesticides has caused a dramatic reduction in the number of pollinators, including bees. Studies on the effects of pesticides on bees have reported effects on both metabolic and neurological levels under chronic exposure. In this study, variations in the differential expression of head and thorax-abdomen proteins in Africanized A. mellifera bees treated acutely with sublethal doses of glyphosate and imidacloprid were studied using a proteomic approach. A total of 92 proteins were detected, 49 of which were differentially expressed compared to those in the control group (47 downregulated and 2 upregulated). Protein interaction networks with differential protein expression ratios suggested that acute exposure of A. mellifera to sublethal doses of glyphosate could cause head damage, which is mainly associated with behavior and metabolism. Simultaneously, imidacloprid can cause damage associated with metabolism as well as, neuronal damage, cellular stress, and impairment of the detoxification system. Regarding the thorax-abdomen fractions, glyphosate could lead to cytoskeleton reorganization and a reduction in defense mechanisms, whereas imidacloprid could affect the coordination and impairment of the oxidative stress response.
38986308	ZIF-8-wrapped AgNPs modified with β-cyclodextrin for sensitive detection of thiacloprid and imidacloprid by SERS technology.	The high efficient surface-enhanced Raman scatterring (SERS) methods to detect thiacloprid and imidacloprid were established using ZIF-8-wrapped Ag nanoparticles (AgNPs) modified with β-cyclodextrin (β-CD). The substrate of ZIF-8/β-CD@AgNPs was characterized by ultraviolet visible spectra (UV-vis), thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), X-ray diffraction (XRD), transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM). The interaction between the substrate and thiacloprid/imidacloprid was also explored. The optimum measurement conditions were obtained by response surface model based on single-factor experiments. Enhancement factors (EFs) of thiacloprid and imidacloprid were respectively 2.29 × 10<sup>6</sup> and 2.60 × 10<sup>6</sup>. A good linearity between the scattering intensity and the concentration of thiacloprid/imidacloprid within 3-1000 nmol L<sup>-1</sup>/6-400 nmol L<sup>-1</sup> was established. The interference experiments indicated that the methods had good selectivity. The SERS methods were successfully applied to detect thiacloprid and imidacloprid in several vegetables samples. The recoveries ranged from 95.5 % to 105 % (n = 5). The detection limits (LODs) (S/N = 3) for thiacloprid and imidacloprid were 1.50 and 0.83 nmol L<sup>-1</sup>, respectively.
39002876	Increased spontaneous activity and progressive suppression of adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus of rat offspring after maternal exposure to imidacloprid.	Imidacloprid (IMI) is a widely used neonicotinoid insecticide that poses risks for developmental neurotoxicity in mammals. The present study investigated the effects of maternal exposure to IMI on behaviors and adult neurogenesis in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) of rat offspring. Dams were exposed to IMI via diet (83, 250, or 750 ppm in diet) from gestational day 6 until day 21 post-delivery on weaning, and offspring were maintained until adulthood on postnatal day 77. In the neurogenic niche, 750-ppm IMI decreased numbers of late-stage neural progenitor cells (NPCs) and post-mitotic immature granule cells by suppressing NPC proliferation and ERK1/2-FOS-mediated synaptic plasticity of granule cells on weaning. Suppressed reelin signaling might be responsible for the observed reductions of neurogenesis and synaptic plasticity. In adulthood, IMI at ≥ 250 ppm decreased neural stem cells by suppressing their proliferation and increasing apoptosis, and mature granule cells were reduced due to suppressed NPC differentiation. Behavioral tests revealed increased spontaneous activity in adulthood at 750 ppm. IMI decreased hippocampal acetylcholinesterase activity and Chrnb2 transcript levels in the DG on weaning and in adulthood. IMI increased numbers of astrocytes and M1-type microglia in the DG hilus, and upregulated neuroinflammation and oxidative stress-related genes on weaning. In adulthood, IMI increased malondialdehyde level and number of M1-type microglia, and downregulated neuroinflammation and oxidative stress-related genes. These results suggest that IMI persistently affected cholinergic signaling, induced neuroinflammation and oxidative stress during exposure, and increased sensitivity to oxidative stress after exposure in the hippocampus, causing hyperactivity and progressive suppression of neurogenesis in adulthood. The no-observed-adverse-effect level of IMI for offspring behaviors and hippocampal neurogenesis was determined to be 83 ppm (5.5-14.1 mg/kg body weight/day).
39033793	The toxicity effects of imidacloprid and chlorpyrifos on oxidative stress and blood biochemistry in Cyprinus carpio.	This study aimed to assess the toxicity effects of chlorpyrifos and imidacloprid, alone and in combination, on oxidative biomarkers and blood biochemistry of Cyprinus carpio. A total of 324 common carp (Cyprinus carpio) were distributed among 27 tanks and exposed to concentrations of 0.0, 100, and 200 μg L<sup>-1</sup> of chlorpyrifos and 0.0, 10.0, and 20.0 μg L<sup>-1</sup> of imidacloprid for 28 days. Changes in enzyme activities in the plasma of fish exposed to chlorpyrifos depended on the dose. In contrast, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), creatine phosphokinase (CPK), gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) activities were significantly increased in fish exposed to imidacloprid, alone and in combination with chlorpyrifos. However, the activity of butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) was significantly decreased. Exposure to imidacloprid and chlorpyrifos, alone and in combination, increased glucose, urea, cholesterol, triglycerides, and creatinine levels, whereas total protein and albumin levels were significantly decreased. The activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione S-transferase (GST), and catalase (CAT) was significantly increased, while glutathione reductase (GR) was significantly decreased. Additionally, although the total antioxidant capacity (TAN) was significantly decreased, malondialdehyde (MDA) levels increased after exposure to imidacloprid and chlorpyrifos, alone and in combination. In conclusion, exposure to imidacloprid and chlorpyrifos, alone and in combination, induced oxidative stress and altered blood biochemistry in carp fish. Moreover, imidacloprid and chlorpyrifos had synergistic effects on some oxidative and biochemical biomarkers.
39034816	New piperidinium surfactants with carbamate fragments as effective adjuvants in insecticide compositions based on imidacloprid.	Surfactants, particularly non-ionic ones, are widely used as adjuvants in pesticide formulations due to their ability to maintain pesticide effectiveness without changing solution properties, such as pH. While non-ionic surfactants are generally low-toxic, stable, and excellent dispersants with high solubilization capabilities, they may be less effective than cationic surfactants, which offer superior surface activity, transport properties, and antimicrobial action. This study investigates the efficacy of new piperidinium surfactants with carbamate fragments as adjuvants in insecticide formulations containing imidacloprid. The efficacy of these formulations is being assessed against greenhouse whitefly, a pest known to harm cultivated and ornamental flowering plants.
39053111	A colloidal gold immunochromatographic method for rapid screening of imidacloprid residues in Chinese herbal medicines.	An imidacloprid colloidal gold immunochromatographic strip was developed in this work, and systematic analytical conditions were deeply investigated. The test strips were used for rapid screening of imidacloprid residues in Chinese herbal medicines. The performance of the colloidal gold test strips was investigated by using five selected Chinese herbal medicines (malt, Coix seed, lotus seed, dried ginger and honeysuckle). As a result, the developed imidacloprid colloidal gold immunochromatographic test strips could be used for rapid screening of imidacloprid residues in 60 kinds of different herbs (including 26 kinds of root/rhizome medicines, 20 kinds of seed/fruit/pericarp medicines, 11 kinds of flower/leaf/whole herb medicines, and 3 kinds of bark/aboveground issues of herb medicines), and the cut-off value was 50 μg/kg. The development of this method can achieve the goal of on-site, rapid and low-cost screening of imidacloprid residues in different herbs, which is of great significance for the quality assurance of herbs.
39058097	Role of IRE1α/XBP1/CHOP/NLRP3 Signalling Pathway in Neonicotinoid Imidacloprid-Induced Pancreatic Dysfunction in Rats and Antagonism of Lycopene: In Vivo and Molecular Docking Simulation Approaches.	Imidacloprid (IMI) is a commonly used new-generation pesticide that has numerous harmful effects on non-targeted organisms, including animals. This study analysed both the adverse effects on the pancreas following oral consumption of imidacloprid neonicotinoids (45 mg/kg daily for 30 days) and the potential protective effects of lycopene (LYC) administration (10 mg/kg/day for 30 days) with IMI exposure in male Sprague-Dawley rats. The apoptotic, pyroptotic, inflammatory, oxidative stress, and endoplasmic reticulum stress biomarkers were evaluated, along with the histopathological alterations. Upon IMI administration, noticeable changes were observed in pancreatic histopathology. Additionally, elevated oxidative/endoplasmic reticulum-associated stress biomarkers, inflammatory, pyroptotic, and apoptotic biomarkers were also observed following IMI administration. LYC effectively reversed these alterations by reducing oxidative stress markers (e.g., MDA) and enhancing antioxidant enzymes (SOD, CAT). It downregulated ER stress markers (IRE1α, XBP1, CHOP), decreased pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β), and suppressed pyroptotic (NLRP3, caspase-1) along with apoptotic markers (Bax, cleaved caspase-3). It also improved the histopathological and ultrastructure alterations brought on by IMI toxicity.
39059637	Photocatalytic removals of imidacloprid insecticide in TiO<sub>2</sub>- and Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>-immobilized porous geopolymer granules.	In this study, geopolymer catalysts were synthesized by incorporating different TiO<sub>2</sub> (0, 7, and 14 wt%) and Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> content (0, 7, 14, and 20 wt%) into porous metakaolin-based geopolymer granules. TiO<sub>2</sub>- and Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>-immobilized geopolymer granules were applied for photocatalytic removals of imidacloprid under UV-C irradiation. The analysis of the surface morphology of the Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> catalyst revealed its larger surface area predominated with meso- and macro-pores thus providing a larger area for photocatalysis. Meanwhile, the TiO<sub>2</sub> catalyst had TiO<sub>2</sub> nanoparticles filled up those mesopores and macropores in geopolymer resulting in its denser structure therefore limiting access of imidacloprid to the reactive sites. To maximize its photocatalytic activities, Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> and TiO<sub>2</sub> could be immobilized into porous geopolymer matrix up to 20 and 14 wt%, respectively. The developed porous geopolymer had relatively stable imidacloprid adsorption capacities regardless of the TiO<sub>2</sub> and Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> contents in their texture. After UV irradiation, their removal efficiencies were 94.85-100% and the photocatalytic degradation increased with the increase in TiO<sub>2</sub> content (from 0 to 14 wt%) and Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> content (from 14 to 20 wt%). Nevertheless, Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>-immobilized geopolymer granules posed a significantly higher kinetic rate (1.966 h<sup>-1</sup>) compared to that of TiO<sub>2</sub> (0.154 h<sup>-1</sup>) at the same catalyst content (14 wt%). The newly developed Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>-immobilized porous geopolymer catalysts could be effectively reused over 10 successive cycles during which the imidacloprid could be completely removed.
39061856	Sesamin Exerts an Antioxidative Effect by Activating the Nrf2 Transcription Factor in the Glial Cells of the Central Nervous System in <i>Drosophila</i> Larvae.	Sesame seeds are abundant in sesamin, which exerts health-promoting effects such as extending the lifespan of adult <i>Drosophila</i> and suppressing oxidative stress by activating the Nrf2 transcription factor. Here, we investigated whether sesamin activated Nrf2 in larval tissues and induced the expression of Nrf2 target genes. In the sesamin-fed larvae, Nrf2 was activated in the central nervous system (CNS), gut, and salivary glands. The ectopic expression of Keap1 in glial cells inhibited sesamin-induced Nrf2 activation in the whole CNS more than in the neurons, indicating that sesamin activates Nrf2 in glia efficiently. We labeled the astrocytes as well as cortex and surface glia with fluorescence to identify the glial cell types in which Nrf2 was activated; we observed their activation in both cell types. These data suggest that sesamin may stimulate the expression of antioxidative genes in glial cells. Among the 17 candidate Nrf2 targets, the mRNA levels of Cyp6a2 and Cyp6g1 in cytochrome P450 were elevated in the CNS, gut, and salivary glands of the sesamin-fed larvae. However, this elevation did not lead to resistance against imidacloprid, which is detoxified by these enzymes. Our results suggest that sesamin may exert similar health-promoting effects on the human CNS and digestive tissues.
39064940	Evaluating the Safety of Imidacloprid FS Seed Treatment Use in Potato Production: A Case Study from China.	This study evaluated the residue behavior and dissipation dynamics of a new imidacloprid FS 600 seed treatment in potato cultivation systems in Shandong and Jilin, China. Sensitive and accurate UPLC-MS/MS methods were established to quantify imidacloprid residues in potatoes, potato plants, and soil. Results showed that imidacloprid dissipation followed a first-order kinetic model, with half-lives ranging from 6.9 to 26.7 days in plants and 19.8 to 28.9 days in soil. At harvest, the highest average residues in potatoes and soil were 0.778 mg/kg and 0.149 mg/kg, respectively. The dietary risk assessment indicated a chronic risk quotient (CRQ) of 39.73% for adults, indicating minimal risk to human consumers, while the ecological risk quotient (ERQ) and ecotoxicity exposure ratio (TER) revealed low to moderate toxicity to earthworms, warranting caution in the use of this formulation. This research provides valuable data for assessing the safety of imidacloprid FS seed treatment in potato cultivation.
39074847	Berberine chloride loaded nano-PEGylated liposomes attenuates imidacloprid-induced neurotoxicity by inhibiting NLRP3/Caspase-1/GSDMD-mediated pyroptosis.	Concerns have been expressed about imidacloprid (IMI), one of the most often used pesticides, and its potential neurotoxicity to non-target organisms. Chronic neuroinflammation is central to the pathology of several neurodegenerative disorders. Hence, exploring the molecular mechanism by which IMI would trigger neuroinflammation is particularly important. This study examined the neurotoxic effects of oral administration of IMI (45 mg/kg/day for 30 days) and the potential neuroprotective effect of berberine (Ber) chloride loaded nano-PEGylated liposomes (Ber-Lip) (10 mg/kg, intravenously every other day for 30 days) using laboratory rat. The histopathological changes, anti-oxidant and oxidative stress markers (GSH, SOD, and MDA), proinflammatory cytokines (IL1β and TNF-α), microglia phenotype markers (CD86 and iNOS for M1; CD163 for M2), the canonical pyroptotic pathway markers (NLRP3, caspase-1, GSDMD, and IL-18) and Alzheimer's disease markers (Neprilysin and beta amyloid [Aβ] deposits) were assessed. Oral administration of IMI resulted in apparent cerebellar histopathological alterations, oxidative stress, predominance of M1 microglia phenotype, significantly upregulated NLRP3, caspase-1, GSDMD, IL-18 and Aβ deposits and significantly decreased Neprilysin expression. Berberine reduced the IMI-induced aberrations in the measured parameters and improved the IMI-induced histopathological and ultrastructure alterations brought on by IMI. This study highlights the IMI neurotoxic effect and its potential contribution to the development of Alzheimer's disease and displayed the neuroprotective effect of Ber-Lip.
39075981	Effect of chlorpyrifos on cypermethrin-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity in rats.	The study aimed to investigate the combined effects of chlorpyrifos and cypermethrin combined on dopaminergic neurotoxicity, motor behaviours and level of selected inflammatory proteins in rats compared to either alone for delineating an interaction between these two pesticides. The rotarod and grip strength tests were employed to assess neurobehavioural changes. The striatal dopamine content and expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), α-synuclein, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), and tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) proteins in the nigrostriatal tissue were measured. Chlorpyrifos impaired the neurobehavioural indexes, reduced the striatal dopamine level, augmented the level of α-synuclein, COX-2, and TNF-α and attenuated the expression of TH similar to but a little less than cypermethrin. Half the dose of both pesticides together produced additional neurotoxicity compared with the usual (highest employed) dose of either alone. The results showed that chlorpyrifos induced moderately less dopaminergic neurotoxicity than cypermethrin. In the combination, they produced a little higher toxicity than either pesticide alone.
39088303	Overexpression of <i>SmUGGT1</i> Confers Imidacloprid Resistance to <i>Sitobion miscanthi</i> (Takahashi).	<i>Sitobion miscanthi</i>, the main species of wheat aphids, is one kind of harmful pest. Chemical insecticides are the important agrochemical products to effectively control wheat aphids. However, the broad application has led to serious resistance of pests to several insecticides, and understanding insecticide resistance mechanisms is critical for integrated pest management. In this study, <i>SmUGGT1</i>, a new uridine diphosphate (UDP)-glycosyltransferase (<i>UGT</i>) gene, was cloned and more strongly expressed in the SM-R (the resistant strain to imidacloprid) than in the SM-S (the susceptible strain to imidacloprid). The increased susceptibility to imidacloprid was observed after silencing <i>SmUGGT1</i>, indicating that it can be related to the resistance to imidacloprid. Subsequently, <i>SmUGGT1</i> regulated post-transcriptionally in the coding sequences (CDs) by miR-81 was verified and involved in the resistance to imidacloprid in <i>S. miscanthi</i>. This finding is crucial in the roles of <i>UGT</i> involved in insecticide resistance management in pests.
39093779	Oculomotor nerve palsy caused by imidacloprid at initial diagnosis: A case report.	Amid the pervasive deployment of imidacloprid, the incidence of poisoning from this compound has risen markedly. Those afflicted with imidacloprid poisoning typically exhibit symptoms ranging from headaches, dizziness, nausea, and abdominal pain, to impaired consciousness and breathlessness, yet instances of ocular paralysis induced by this toxin have not previously been documented.
39106915	Neurodevelopmental changes in Drosophila melanogaster are restored by treatment with lutein-loaded nanoparticles: Positive modulation of neurochemical and behavioral parameters.	Neurodevelopmental disorders, such as autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), are characterized by persistent changes in communication and social interaction, as well as restricted and stereotyped patterns of behavior. The complex etiology of these disorders possibly combines the effects of multiple genes and environmental factors. Hence, exposure to insecticides such as imidacloprid (IMI) has been used to replicate the changes observed in these disorders. Lutein is known for its anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties and is associated with neuroprotective effects. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate the protective effect of lutein-loaded nanoparticles, along with their mechanisms of action, on Drosophila melanogaster offspring exposed to IMI-induced damage. To simulate the neurodevelopmental disorder model, flies were exposed to a diet containing IMI for 7 days. Posteriorly, their offspring were exposed to a diet containing lutein-loaded nanoparticles for a period of 24 h, and male and female flies were subjected to behavioral and biochemical evaluations. Treatment with lutein-loaded nanoparticles reversed the parameters of hyperactivity, aggressiveness, social interaction, repetitive movements, and anxiety in the offspring of flies exposed to IMI. It also protected markers of oxidative stress and cell viability, in addition to preventing the reduction of Nrf2 and Shank3 immunoreactivity. These results demonstrate that the damage induced by exposure to IMI was restored through treatment with lutein-loaded nanoparticles, elucidating lutein's mechanisms of action as a therapeutic agent, which, after further studies, can become a co-adjuvant in the treatment of neurodevelopmental disorders, such as ASD and ADHD.
39114363	Treatment of an accident of imidacloprid poisoning.	<b>Objective:</b> Accidental oral imidacloprid poisoning occurred in a family in Shandong, China, in May 2023. This study aimed to analyze the clinical characteristics of this imidacloprid poisoning event and investigated the detection of toxicants. <b>Methods:</b> Clinical data of four patients with oral imidacloprid poisoning were collected and retrospectively analyzed. The relevant literature was then reviewed. <b>Results:</b> Four patients from the same family received different oral doses of imidacloprid. The main clinical manifestations were digestive and neurological symptoms, including nausea, vomiting, and varying degrees of consciousness. Laboratory tests showed an increased white blood cell count, neutrophil proportion, and mild elevation of transaminase and urea nitrogen levels in some patients. Following comprehensive treatment, which included hemoperfusion, gastric lavage, total gastrointestinal decontamination, and drug symptomatic treatment, the patient's symptoms were quickly relieved, and the concentration of imidacloprid in the blood rapidly decreased. <b>Conclusion:</b> Toxicant detection is an important criterion for the differential diagnosis of poisoning and is helpful for disease assessment, treatment plan formulation, and in determining patient prognosis.
39120325	Neonicotinoid Pesticides Affect Developing Neurons in Experimental Mouse Models and in Human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell (iPSC)-Derived Neural Cultures and Organoids.	Neonicotinoids are synthetic, nicotine-derived insecticides used worldwide to protect crops and domestic animals from pest insects. The reported evidence shows that they are also able to interact with mammalian nicotine receptors (nAChRs), triggering detrimental responses in cultured neurons. Exposure to high neonicotinoid levels during the fetal period induces neurotoxicity in animal models. Considering the persistent exposure to these insecticides and the key role of nAChRs in brain development, their potential neurotoxicity on mammal central nervous system (CNS) needs further investigations. We studied here the neurodevelopmental effects of different generations of neonicotinoids on CNS cells in mouse fetal brain and primary cultures and in neuronal cells and organoids obtained from human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC). Neonicotinoids significantly affect neuron viability, with imidacloprid (IMI) inducing relevant alterations in synaptic protein expression, neurofilament structures, and microglia activation in vitro, and in the brain of prenatally exposed mouse fetuses. IMI induces neurotoxic effects also on developing human iPSC-derived neurons and cortical organoids. Collectively, the current findings show that neonicotinoids might induce impairment during neuro/immune-development in mouse and human CNS cells and provide new insights in the characterization of risk for the exposure to this class of pesticides.
39128528	Imidacloprid affects human cells through mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress.	Given their relatively low persistence and mammalian toxicity, neonicotinoid pesticides have been extensively used worldwide and are omnipresent in the environment. Recent studies have shown that neonicotinoids may pose adverse effects on non-target organisms other than the known neurotoxicity, raising emerging concerns that these insecticides might pose human health risk through additional toxicity pathways. In the present study, the mitochondria function, oxidative stress, DNA damages, and genes transcription levels were examined in the human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells after 48-h exposure to imidacloprid at concentrations from 0.05 to 200 μmol/L. Results showed that imidacloprid induced mitochondrial dysfunction with the degradation of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) levels. In addition, imidacloprid caused oxidative stress by stimulating the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and hydrogen peroxide (H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub>) via the disruption of calcium ion level and mitochondrial function. Ultimately, the oxidative stress continued to produce DNA damage and apoptosis in SH-SY5Y cells at imidacloprid concentrations above 47.6 μmol/L. Among the evaluated endpoints, ATP was the most sensitive, with a median activity concentration of 0.74 μmol/L. The 5 % hazard concentration of imidacloprid was estimated to be 0.69 μmol/L, which can be used as a threshold for human health risk assessment for imidacloprid. Collectively, our results provide an important support for further research on potential toxicity of neonicotinoids related to mitochondrial toxicity in humans.
39136649	Sublethal Imidacloprid Administration to Honey Bee Workers is More Lethal to the Queen Larvae.	Imidacloprid and other neonicotinoid insecticides severely impact the performance and survival of honey bees and other pollinators. In the present study, we focused on the gene expression profile of newly emerged Apis mellifera queen bees after sublethal imidacloprid treatment during the larval stage. Royal jelly containing 1 ppb imidacloprid was provided to larvae for 3 consecutive days (2-4 days postemergence). Queen larvae treated with imidacloprid showed lower capping and emergence rates (35.5% and 24.22%, respectively) than did control larvae (61.68% and 52.95%, respectively), indicating a high failure rate of queen rearing associated with imidacloprid exposure during the larval stage. The molecular response to imidacloprid treatment was examined next. By comparing the gene expression profiles of imidacloprid-treated queen larvae and those of control queen larvae using DESeq2, we identified 215 differentially expressed genes, with 105 and 111 up- and downregulated genes, respectively. Gene Ontology results indicated that chitin binding- and calcium ion binding-related genes were upregulated, while phototransduction- and visual perception-related genes were downregulated. The high mortality rate and altered gene expression profiles suggest that treatment with even 1 ppb imidacloprid can severely impact queen bee survival. Environ Toxicol Chem 2024;43:2232-2242. © 2024 SETAC.
39162819	Effects of chronic insecticide exposure on neuronal network development in vitro in rat cortical cultures.	Developmental exposure to carbamates, organophosphates, and pyrethroids has been associated with impaired neurodevelopmental outcomes. Sex-specific differences following chronic insecticide exposure are rather common in vivo. Therefore, we assessed the chronic effects of in vitro exposure to different carbamates (carbaryl, methomyl and aldicarb), organophosphates [chlorpyrifos (CPF), chlorpyrifos-oxon (CPO), and 3,5,6,trichloropyridinol (TCP)], and pyrethroids [permethrin, alpha-cypermethrin and 3-phenoxy benzoic acid (3-PBA)] on neuronal network development in sex-separated rat primary cortical cultures using micro-electrode array (MEA) recordings. Our results indicate that exposure for 1 week to carbaryl inhibited neurodevelopment in male cultures, while a hyperexcitation was observed in female cultures. Methomyl and aldicarb evoked a hyperexcitation after 2 weeks of exposure, which was more pronounced in female cultures. In contrast to acute MEA results, exposure to ≥ 10 µM CPF caused hyperexcitation in both sexes after 10 days. Interestingly, exposure to 10 µM CPO induced a clear hyperexcitation after 10 days of exposure in male but not female cultures. Exposure to 100 µM CPO strongly inhibited neuronal development. Exposure to the type I pyrethroid permethrin resulted in a hyperexcitation at 10 µM and a decrease in neuronal development at 100 µM. In comparison, exposure to ≥ 10 µM of the type II pyrethroid alpha-cypermethrin decreased neuronal development. In female but not in male cultures, exposure to 1 and 10 µM permethrin changed (network) burst patterns, with female cultures having shorter (network) bursts with fewer spikes per (network) burst. Together, these results show that MEA recordings are suitable for measuring sex-specific developmental neurotoxicity in vitro. Additionally, pyrethroid exposure induced effects on neuronal network development at human-relevant concentrations. Finally, chronic exposure has different effects on neuronal functioning compared to acute exposure, highlighting the value of both exposure paradigms.
39181260	A tiny sample rapid visual detection technology for imidacloprid resistance in Aphis gossypii by CRISPR/Cas12a.	Insecticide resistance monitoring is essential for guiding chemical pest control and resistance management policies. Currently, rapid and effective technology for monitoring the resistance of tiny insects in the field is absent. Aphis gossypii Glover is a typical tiny insect, and one of the most frequently reported insecticide-resistant pests. In this study, we established a novel CRISPR/Cas12a-based rapid visual detection approach for detecting the V62I and R81T mutations in the β1 subunit of the nAChR in A. gossypii, to reflect target-site resistance to imidacloprid. Based on the nAChR β1 subunit gene in A. gossypii, the V62I/R81T-specific RPA primers and crRNAs were designed, and the ratio of 10 μM/2 μM/10 μM for ssDNA/Cas12a/crRNA was selected as the optimal dosage for the CRISPR reaction, ensuring that Cas12a only accurately recognizes imidacloprid-resistance templates. Our data show that the field populations of resistant insects possessing V62I and R81T mutations to imidacloprid can be accurately identified within one hour using the RPA-CRISPR/Cas12a detection approach under visible blue light at 440-460 nm. The protocol for RPA-CRISPR detection necessitates a single less than 2 mm specimen of A. gossypii tissues to perform RPA-CRISPR detection, and the process only requires a container at 37 °C and a portable blue light at 440-460 nm. Our research represents the first application of RPA-CRISPR technology in insecticide resistance detection, offers a new method for the resistance monitoring of A. gossypii or other tiny insects, helps delay the development of resistance to imidacloprid, improves the sustainability of chemical control, and provides theoretical guidance for managing pest resistance.
39182229	Examining imidacloprid behaviorally resistant house flies (Musca domestica L.) (Diptera: Muscidae) for neonicotinoid cross-resistance.	The house fly (Musca domestica L.) is a ubiquitous fly species commonly associated with confined animal and urban waste storage facilities. It is known for its pestiferous nature and ability to mechanically vector numerous disease-causing pathogens. Effective control of adult house fly populations has traditionally relied upon insecticidal food baits; however, due to the overuse of insecticides, resistance has proven to yield many insecticidal baits and chemical classes less effective. Imidacloprid, the most widely used neonicotinoid, has been formulated and commonly used in house fly baits for over 2 decades. However, widespread evidence of physiological and behavioral resistance to imidacloprid has been documented. While previous studies have investigated the mechanisms of behavioral resistance to imidacloprid in the house fly, it remains unclear whether behavioral resistance is specific to imidacloprid or if behavioral cross-resistance exists to other compounds within the neonicotinoid class of insecticides. The current study used no-choice and choice-feeding bioassays to examine a lab-selected imidacloprid behaviorally resistant house fly colony for cross-resistance to other insecticides in the neonicotinoid chemical class. All flies exhibited high mortality (97-100%) in no-choice assays, even when exposed to imidacloprid, indicating physiological susceptibility to all tested neonicotinoids. House flies exhibited high mortality (98-100%) in choice assays when exposed to all neonicotinoid insecticides tested besides imidacloprid. These results confirm that imidacloprid behavioral resistance is specific to the compound imidacloprid and that alternative neonicotinoids remain viable options for control. Our study showed no evidence of behavioral cross-resistance to other compounds in the neonicotinoid class.
39185675	Sensitivity Variations in Developmental Toxicity of Imidacloprid to Zebrafish Embryos at Different Neurodevelopmental Stages.	Neonicotinoids are ubiquitous in global surface waters and pose a significant risk to aquatic organisms. However, information is lacking on the variations in sensitivity of organisms at different developmental stages to the neurotoxic neonicotinoids. We established a spectrum of toxicity to zebrafish embryos at four neurodevelopmental stages (1, 3, 6, and 8 h post fertilization [hpf]) and dechorionated embryos at 6 hpf based on external and internal exposure to imidacloprid as a representative neonicotinoid. Embryos at the gastrula stage (6 and 8 hpf) were more sensitive to imidacloprid than embryos at earlier developmental stages. Dechorionated embryos were more sensitive to imidacloprid than embryos with a chorion, suggesting that the chorion offers protection against pollutants. Nine sublethal effects were induced by imidacloprid exposure, among which uninflated swim bladder (USB) was the most sensitive. Water depth and air availability in the exposure chambers were critical factors influencing the occurrence of USB in zebrafish larvae. Internal residues of metabolites accounted for <10% of imidacloprid, indicating that imidacloprid was metabolized in a limited fashion in the embryos. In addition, acute toxicity of the main metabolite 5-hydroxy-imidacloprid was significantly lower than that of imidacloprid, indicating that the observed toxicity in embryos exposed to imidacloprid was mainly induced by the parent compound. Our research offers a fresh perspective on choosing the initial exposure time in zebrafish embryo toxicity tests, particularly for neurotoxicants. Environ Toxicol Chem 2024;43:2398-2408. © 2024 SETAC.
39189176	Berberine Attenuates Acetamiprid Exposure-Induced Mitochondrial Dysfunction and Apoptosis in Rats via Regulating the Antioxidant Defense System.	Acetamiprid (ACMP) is a neonicotinoid insecticide that poses a significant threat to the environment and mankind. Oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction are considered prime contributors to ACMP-induced toxic effects. Meanwhile, berberine (BBR) a natural plant alkaloid, is a topic of interest because of its therapeutic and prophylactic actions. Therefore, this study evaluated the effects of BBR on ACMP-mediated alterations in mitochondrial functions and apoptosis in rat liver tissue. Male Wistar rats were divided into four groups: (I) control, (II) BBR-treated, (III) ACMP-exposed, and (IV) BBR+ACMP co-treated groups. The doses of BBR (150 mg/kg b.wt) and ACMP (1/10 of LD<sub>50,</sub> i.e., 21.7 mg/kg b.wt) were given intragastrically for 21 consecutive days. The results showed that the administration of ACMP diminished mitochondrial complex activity, downregulated complex I (ND1 and ND2) and complex IV (COX1 and COX4) subunit mRNA expression, depleted the antioxidant defense system, and induced apoptosis in rat liver. BBR pre-treatment significantly attenuated ACMP-induced mitochondrial dysfunction by maintaining mitochondrial complex activity and upregulating ND1, ND2, COX1, and COX4 mRNA expression. BBR reversed ACMP-mediated apoptosis by diminishing Bax and caspase-3 and increasing the Bcl-2 protein level. BBR also improved the mitochondrial antioxidant defense system by upregulating mRNA expression of PGC-1α, MnSOD, and UCP-2 in rat liver tissue. This study is the first to evaluate the protective potential of BBR against pesticide-induced mitochondrial dysfunction in liver tissue. In conclusion, BBR offers protection against ACMP-induced impairment in mitochondrial functions by maintaining the antioxidant level and modulating the apoptotic cascade.
39195720	Characterization of Neonicotinoid Metabolites by Cytochrome P450-Mediated Metabolism in Poultry.	Neonicotinoids, a neuro-effective class of insecticides, are heavily applied in agricultural activities worldwide. Poultry can be exposed to neonicotinoids by several routes, but the knowledge of neonicotinoid's metabolism in poultry and its associated interspecies differences is highly limited. Hence, this study aims to investigate the species differences in metabolite formations, as well as cytochrome P450 (CYP)-dependent metabolism of four major neonicotinoid compounds, acetamiprid, imidacloprid, clothianidin, and thiamethoxam, in poultry. In vitro biotransformation assays using hepatic microsomes of chicken, ducks, geese, quails, and rats were conducted. Metabolites of neonicotinoids were then screened by LC/Q-TOF and quantified by LC/MS/MS. The results revealed an existence of interspecies differences in the formations of <i>N</i>-[(6-chloro-3-pyridyl) methyl] -<i>N</i>-methyl acetamidine (IM-1-5) of acetamiprid and dm-clothianidin of clothianidin between chicken and other species. In addition, the greatest CYP activities in the metabolism of most neonicotinoid substrates, such as acetamiprid to dm-acetamiprid, imidacloprid to hydroxylated-imidacloprid and imidacloprid-olefin, clothianidin to dm-clothianidin, and thiamethoxam to clothianidin, were found in chicken. These results suggested that the CYPs in chicken may have a greater capacity for metabolism of neonicotinoids compared to other poultry. This study further revealed that the maximum intrinsic clearance of dn-imidacloprid and dn-clothianidin in ducks may be superintended by CYP-mediated nitro-reductions of imidacloprid and clothianidin. Further studies employing CYP recombinant enzymes may be required to elucidate the specific CYP isoforms that may be involved in neonicotinoid metabolism in avian species.
39197517	Neuroprotective effect of diosmin against chlorpyrifos-induced brain intoxication was mediated by regulating PPAR-γ and NF-κB/AP-1 signals.	Chlorpyrifos (CPF) is a widely used organophosphate (OP) pesticide. Unfortunately, pesticides are known to cause neuronal intoxication. Diosmin (DS) is an antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and neuroprotective flavonoid with high efficacy and safety. We plan to investigate the efficacy of DS in treating CPF-induced neurotoxicity, as well as the mechanisms underlying the protective effects. In our study, rats were randomized into 5 groups: control, DS (50 mg/kg), CPF (10 mg/kg), CPF + DS (25 mg/kg), and CPF + DS (50 mg/kg). The results indicated that DS ameliorated neuronal intoxication induced by CPF, evidenced by decreasing Tau, p-Tau, and β-amyloid. Histological examinations support these findings. DS significantly ameliorated CPF-induced neuronal oxidative injury by decreasing MDA content and elevating GSH, GST, and SOD levels mediated by PPAR-γ upregulation. DS suppressed CPF-induced brain inflammation by decreasing MPO enzymatic activity and TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6 levels mediated by downregulation of NF-κB/AP-1(c-FOS and c-JUN) signal. Of note, DS protective effects were dose dependent. In conclusion, our data suggested that DS was a promising therapeutic strategy for attenuating CPF-induced neuronal intoxication by restoring oxidant-antioxidant balance and inhibiting inflammatory response in brain tissues.
39218340	Sex-specific effects of low-dose of acetamiprid on corticosterone levels but not on oxidative stress in House sparrows.	Neonicotinoid insecticides are widely used in agriculture and have been linked to various detrimental physiological effects on wild birds. Despite this, the impact of acetamiprid - a less studied member of the neonicotinoid family - on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis responsible for the hormonal regulation of the response to stress has rarely been examined in birds. In our study, we explored the effects of acetamiprid on feather levels of corticosterone, the major end product of the HPA, and blood oxidative status of House sparrows (Passer domesticus), following the ingestion of a low, field-realistic dose during two consecutive experiments in 2015 and 2016. We involved 112 birds in each experiment - 56 males and 56 females - that were administered a placebo or a dose of acetamiprid equivalent to 0.5% of the LD<sub>50</sub> of the Zebra finch over the entire duration of the experiments, which lasted approximately three weeks. We measured corticosterone concentrations in feathers grown during an acclimation phase before ingestion and in newly grown feather after the experiment and assessed three oxidative stress markers in the blood. We found no impact of acetamiprid on oxidative stress markers. However, in 2015, male sparrows that ingested acetamiprid exhibited higher corticosterone levels in their feathers compared to those that received a placebo. No such difference was found in females. Interestingly, this effect was not observed in year 2016, which was characterised by less stressful conditions for the birds. These findings offer the first evidence of a potential effect of acetamiprid on corticosterone levels in a songbird, suggesting that ingesting this compound at very low dose may alter the endocrine physiology of the response to stress.
39224274	Eco-friendly and sustainable approaches against aphids management (<i>Myzus persicae</i>) and dissipation studies of imidacloprid in important cash crop capsicum under protected and open condition.	Capsicum is generally infested with many biotic agents mainly sucking insects, among them the major is aphid (<i>Myzus persicae)</i>. Chemical management is one of the most common strategies for their management. However, there are no recommended insecticides for insect management in polyhouse. An experiment was designed to assess the bio-potency of four popularly used insecticides (Imidacloprid-17.8SL, Acephate-75SP, Dimethoate-30EC and Buprofezin-25SC), a botanical (Neem oil 10000 ppm) and two entomopathogenic fungi (<i>Metarhizium anisopliae</i> 1.15%WP and <i>Lecanicillium lecanii</i> 1.15%WP) for two consecutive seasons. Most effective and the highest reduction of aphid population (78.14-81.92 %) were found in imidacloprid (17.8SL) treated plots. This effective molecule imidacloprid was further studied for its dissipation pattern under polyhouse and open condition and found that the imidacloprid residues in capsicum fruit dissipated below quantification limit (BQL) within 10days after final spray and the residues in the soil sampled at harvest time were found below the detection level. The half-lives of imidacloprid were 1.88 and 2.61 days under polyhouse and 1.07 and 1.52 days in open field at recommended doses (25 g a.i. ha<sup>-1</sup>) and double doses (50 g a.i. ha<sup>-1</sup>) of application respectively. The dietary exposure of imidacloprid on capsicum fruit under both conditions exposed that hazard quotient (HQ) values obtained from the different treatment doses have not exceeded the upper limit of toxicity (HQ < 1) and imidacloprid residues in the fruits were found below the existing MRL (Maximum Residue Limit) values (0.5 mg/kg) at 3 days after its final applications. Thus, imidacloprid may be considered as the effective chemical management option against aphids in capsicum under polyhouse and open field having no harmful effect on human consumption.
39249498	Physiological and gene expression responses of Protohermes xanthodes (Megaloptera: Corydalidae) larvae to imidacloprid.	Megaloptera larvae are important bioindicator species and potential resource insects. To further cultivate their economic role, their living environment must be examined in more detail. In this study, we analyzed the physiological and biochemical effects of a sublethal dose of imidacloprid, a widely used neonicotinoid insecticide, on the larvae of Protohermes xanthodes. After treatment with imidacloprid, P. xanthodes larvae exhibited clear symptoms of poisoning, including the head curling up toward the ventral surface. Additionally, the activity of acetylcholinesterase was significantly inhibited following exposure. The activities of glutathione S-transferases initially continuously increased but showed a slight decrease after 8 days. Catalase activity initially increased and then decreased following imidacloprid treatment; superoxide dismutase activity fluctuated over time, and peroxidase activity continuously increased. The expression levels of HSP70s genes were evaluated using qRT-PCR. These results indicate that P. xanthodes larvae exhibit a toxic response to imidacloprid exposure, manifested as oxidative stress, as observed through behavioral and physiological indicators.
39251036	Imidacloprid unique and repeated treatment produces cholinergic transmission disruption and apoptotic cell death in SN56 cells.	Imidacloprid (IMI), the most widely used worldwide neonicotinoid biocide, produces cognitive disorders after repeated and single treatment. However, little was studied about the possible mechanisms that produce this effect. Cholinergic neurotransmission regulates cognitive function. Most cholinergic neuronal bodies are present in the basal forebrain (BF), regulating memory and learning process, and their dysfunction or loss produces cognition decline. BF SN56 cholinergic wild-type or acetylcholinesterase (AChE), β-amyloid-precursor-protein (βAPP), Tau, glycogen-synthase-kinase-3-beta (GSK3β), beta-site-amyloid-precursor-protein-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1), and/or nuclear-factor-erythroid-2-related-factor-2 (NRF2) silenced cells were treated for 1 and 14 days with IMI (1 μM-800 μM) with or without recombinant heat-shock-protein-70 (rHSP70), recombinant proteasome 20S (rP20S) and with or without N-acetyl-cysteine (NAC) to determine the possible mechanisms that mediate this effect. IMI treatment for 1 and 14 days altered cholinergic transmission through AChE inhibition, and triggered cell death partially through oxidative stress generation, AChE-S overexpression, HSP70 downregulation, P20S inhibition, and Aβ and Tau peptides accumulation. IMI produced oxidative stress through reactive oxygen species production and antioxidant NRF2 pathway downregulation, and induced Aβ and Tau accumulation through BACE1, GSK3β, HSP70, and P20S dysfunction. These results may assist in determining the mechanisms that produce cognitive dysfunction observed following IMI exposure and provide new therapeutic tools.
39251113	Chlorpyrifos-oxon induced neuronal cell death via endoplasmic reticulum stress-triggered apoptosis pathways.	Chlorpyrifos (CPF) is one of the organophosphorus pesticides widely used throughout the world. Epidemiological studies suggested a link between CPF exposure and neurologic disorders, while the molecular mechanisms remain inconclusive. In the present study, we investigated the impacts of chlorpyrifos-oxon (CPO), the major toxic CPF metabolite, on cell apoptosis, and explored possible mechanism associated with endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress in SH-SY5Y cells. Results showed that CPO exposure induced dose-dependent apoptosis and expression of ER stress-related proteins in SH-SY5Y cells. Pretreatment with 4-PBA (an ER stress inhibitor) effectively inhibited the expression of GRP78, GRP94, p-IRE1α, and XBP1-s, and apoptotic events. Pretreatment with STF-083010 (an IRE1α inhibitor) partially attenuated CPO-induced apoptosis. In addition, CPO exposure significantly evoked the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) which could be eliminated by pretreatment of 4-PBA. Of note, buffering the ROS generation with antioxidant NAC had little impact on the expression of p-IRE1α, and only partially attenuated CPO-induced apoptosis. In contrast, co-pretreatment with NAC and STF-083010 effectively inhibited CPO-induced apoptotic events. Collectively, our results indicate that CPO exposure exerts neuronal cytotoxicity via ER stress downstream-regulated IRE1α/XBP1 signaling pathway and ROS generation-triggered apoptosis. These findings highlight the role of ER stress in CPF-induced neurotoxicity, and provide a promising target for the intervention of organophosphate-associated neurodegenerative diseases.
39256485	Retraction Note: The role of ascorbic acid combined exposure on Imidacloprid-induced oxidative stress and genotoxicity in Nile tilapia.	NA
39317252	Occurrence and distribution of neonicotinoids and fiproles within groundwater in Minnesota: Effects of lithology, land use and geography.	Due to the widespread use of insecticides in agriculture and for urban pest control, there is the potential for contamination of groundwater systems. Five neonicotinoids, fipronil, and nine transformation products (desnitro-imidacloprid, imidacloprid olefin, imidacloprid urea, acetamiprid-n-desmethyl, thiacloprid amide, 6-chloronicotinic acid, fipronil desulfinyl, fipronil sulfide, and fipronil sulfone) were studied in samples from 15 springs and 75 unique wells from 13 counties over four years (2019-2022) in Minnesota. Up to 13 neonicotinoids and fiproles were identified in groundwater samples from springs and 10 from wells. Springs were particularly susceptible to contamination, with clothianidin found in 41 % of springs (maximum concentration: 200 ng/L) followed by thiamethoxam (31 %), imidacloprid (22 %), thiacloprid (19 %), and acetamiprid (12 %). Clothianidin was the most common analyte in well samples (13 %), followed by thiamethoxam (12 %), acetamiprid (14 %), imidacloprid (10 %), and thiacloprid (2 %). Hydrostratigraphy was an important factor in neonicotinoid detection with frequencies of detection highest in sandy or karst aquifers. Regional land use, especially the fraction of agricultural land, and imperviousness influenced observed concentrations within springsheds and well catchment areas. There were several significant correlations between neonicotinoid detections with geochemistry indicators including tritium/groundwater age, dissolved oxygen (DO), and total nitrate plus nitrite (total oxidized nitrogen).
39356435	Lysosomal disruption, mitochondrial impairment, histopathological and oxidative stress in rat's nervous system after exposure to a neonicotinoid (imidacloprid).	Imidacloprid (IMI), a neonicotinoid pesticide, has been widely used due to its high efficiency against insect pests. However, its prolonged exposure may pose significant risks to non-target organisms, including mammals. Recent studies have raised concerns about its potential neurotoxicity, yet the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. This study aimed to assess the neurotoxic effects of chronic Imidacloprid exposure in Wistar rats, focusing on oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, and lysosomal disruption. Wistar rats were orally administered two doses of Imidacloprid (5 mg/kg and 50 mg/kg body weight) for three months. Neurotoxic effects were assessed by measuring key biochemical markers such as the enzymatic activities of catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and glutathione S-transferase (GST). Non-enzymatic markers, including glutathione (GSH) levels and malondialdehyde (MDA) index, were also evaluated. Mitochondrial function was assessed by analyzing oxygen consumption, swelling, and membrane permeability and histopathological changes. Lysosomal stability was examined using the Neutral Red Retention Time (NRRT) assay. Neutral red is a dye that accumulates in the acidic environment of lysosomes. Healthy lysosomes retain the dye, while compromised lysosomes lose it, indicating destabilization. By measuring the amount of neutral red retained in lysosomes, the NRRT assay assesses lysosomal integrity. Lysosomal pH variations were also monitored to evaluate functional changes. Microscopic analysis provided insight into structural changes in lysosomes and other cell components. Lysosomal destabilization was further confirmed by morphological alterations observed through light microscopy, revealing a progressive, time-dependent degeneration of lysosomal structures, including lysosomal expansion, neutral red dye leakage, and cell rounding. These changes reflected a temporal evolution of lysosomal damage, progressing from minor structural disruptions to more severe alterations as exposure continued, observable at the microscopic level. During the study, clinical observations of intoxicated rats included symptoms such as lethargy, reduced activity levels, and impaired motor coordination. High-dose Imidacloprid exposure led to noticeable behavioral changes, including decreased exploratory behavior and altered grooming patterns. Additionally, signs of neurotoxic effects, such as tremors or ataxia, were observed in the rats exposed to the higher dose, reflecting the systemic impact of chronic pesticide exposure. The results revealed a significant decrease in the enzymatic activities of CAT, GPx, and SOD, accompanied by an increase in GST activity. A notable reduction in glutathione levels and a rise in MDA index were observed, indicating enhanced oxidative stress in the brain. Mitochondrial impairment was evidenced by disturbances in oxygen consumption, increased swelling, and altered membrane permeability. Lysosomal destabilization was confirmed by reduced retention of neutral red dye, structural changes in lysosomes, and a significant rise in lysosomal pH in the IMI-exposed groups. In addition, the histopathological features indicate that imidacloprid at the given dose and exposure duration may have caused notable neurotoxic effects in Wistar rat brain tissue. Chronic exposure to Imidacloprid induces oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, lysosomal disruption and histopathological alterations in the central nervous system of Wistar rats. These findings provide valuable insights into the neurotoxic mechanisms of neonicotinoid pesticides, highlighting the need for further research to understand the long-term effects of Imidacloprid exposure on mammalian health.
39359636	Cocktail effects of clothianidin and imidacloprid in zebrafish embryonic development, with high and low concentrations of mixtures.	There is growing concern that sprayed neonicotinoid pesticides (<i>neonics</i>) persist in mixed forms in the environmental soil and water systems, and these concerns stem from reports of increase in both the detection frequency and concentration of these pollutants. To confirm the toxic effects of <i>neonics</i>, we conducted toxicity tests on two <i>neonics</i>, clothianidin (CLO) and imidacloprid (IMD), in embryos of zebrafish. Toxicity tests were performed with two different types of mixtures: potential mixture compounds and realistic mixture compounds. Potential mixtures of CLO and IMD exhibited synergistic effects, in a dose-dependent manner, in zebrafish embryonic toxicity. Realistic mixture toxicity tests that are reflecting the toxic effects of mixture in the aquatic environment were conducted with zebrafish embryos. The toxicity of the CLO and IMD mixture at environmentally-relevant concentrations was confirmed by the alteration of the transcriptional levels of target genes, such as cell damage linked to oxidative stress response and thyroid hormone synthesis related to zebrafish embryonic development. Consequently, the findings of this study can be considered a strategy for examining mixture toxicity in the range of detected environmental concentrations. In particular, our results will be useful in explaining the mode of toxic action of chemical mixtures following short-term exposure. Finally, the toxicity information of CLO and IMD mixtures will be applied for the agricultural environment, as a part of chemical regulation guideline for the use and production of pesticides.
39361120	Toxic Effects of Imidacloprid, Copper Sulfate, and Their Combinations on Biomolecular and Oxidative/Antioxidant Biomarkers in the Tissues of Oreochromis niloticus.	The wide-ranging use of heavy metals and pesticides worldwide and their irreversible accumulation in aquatic ecosystems is a major concern. As the range of household and agricultural chemicals increases, water pollution is trending from the toxic effects of a single agent to complex agent pollution that threatens aquatic ecosystems. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of pesticides (imidacloprid, IMI) and metals (copper sulfate, CuSO<sub>4</sub>) on oxidative stress biomarkers, antioxidant enzymes, and biomolecular parameters. The present study on the individual and combined effects of Oreochromis niloticus copper sulfate (CuSO<sub>4</sub>; 1 ppm), imidacloprid (IMI; 10 and 50 ppm), and IMI + CuSO<sub>4</sub> (IMI10 + CuSO<sub>4</sub>, IMI50 + CuSO<sub>4</sub>) groups for 14 days. In this context, oxidative stress/antioxidant markers (SOD, CAT, GST, and GSH) and biomolecular markers including HSP70, 8-OHdG, PC, and TBARS levels were examined in fish liver and kidney tissues, which are detoxification organs. The results indicated that IMI and CuSO<sub>4</sub> toxicity alone and in combination altered oxidative stress/antioxidant markers and biomolecular parameters; moreover, 14 days of exposure to the combination of CuSO<sub>4</sub> and imidacloprid in particular exhibited a synergistic effect and caused oxidative toxicity. These findings highlighted the importance of evaluating mixtures of pesticides and metals and that the results show a remarkably synergistic effect. It can be concluded that these biomarkers are important indicators of physiological changes in living organisms.
39368615	Bioaccumulation, transformation and toxicity of imidacloprid and dinotefuran in Eisenia fetida under single and binary exposure scenarios.	Earthworms (Eisenia fetida) were exposed to individual and binary mixture of imidacloprid (IMI) and dinotefuran (DIN) at 0.05 and 0.5 mg/kg for 28 days to investigate their bioaccumulation, transformation and toxicity. IMI was more easily absorbed by earthworms than DIN, and worms didn't accumulate or generate toxic metabolites. The obvious accumulation of neonicotinoids during later period caused significant neural dysfunction, especially when exposed to high-concentration IMI. Meanwhile, oxidative stress indicated by decreased SOD/CAT activity (33.2 %-68.1 %) and increased MDA (38.4 %-55.0 %) was induced by binary exposure with high-concentration IMI. By contrast, coelomocytes responded earlier and more strongly than oxidative responses. Coelomocytes' viability and mitochondrial membrane potential were inhibited (23.6 %-91.7 %) mainly by IMI and binary exposure. Coelomocytes' lactate dehydrogenase activity exerted a fluctuating pattern, suggesting irregular disturbance on cellular functions. This study highlights the role of coelomocytes and the need to consider binary/multiple scenarios and transformation of neonicotinoids in their risk assessment to earthworms.
39393250	Cross-resistance patterns in field strains of the sheep blowfly following laboratory-based selection pressure with dicyclanil or imidacloprid.	Control of the sheep blowfly relies largely on the use of insecticides applied prophylactically in advance of expected fly activity. However, the blowfly has shown an ability to develop resistance to some of these insecticides. Recent reports of the co-occurrence of resistance to both dicyclanil and imidacloprid in in vitro bioassays with field-collected fly strains has raised the possibility that the two resistances may represent cross-resistance linked by a common mechanism. We investigated this by imposing insecticide selection pressure on larvae of two insecticide-resistant field strains over a number of generations using either dicyclanil or imidacloprid and then measuring changes in sensitivity to both the selecting chemical and the alternate chemical. Larvae selected over six generations with each chemical showed significant increases in resistance to the selecting chemical: resistance ratios at the IC<sub>50</sub> 5.5 - 8.1-fold higher for dicyclanil, and 3.1 - 3.8-fold for imidacloprid. The larvae also showed significant increases in levels of resistance towards the alternate chemical: resistance ratios 2.6 - 3.1-fold higher towards dicyclanil following selection with imidacloprid, and 2.2 - 3.2-fold higher towards imidacloprid following selection with dicyclanil. The increases in resistance to both chemicals after exposure to either suggests a common mechanism of resistance, at least in our laboratory-selected populations. Assays with the cytochrome P450 inhibitor aminobenzotriazole showed that this synergist was able to remove the increased resistance to both compounds in strains selected with either compound, suggesting that cytochrome P450 is responsible for the resistance observed to both chemicals. Our results confirm that cross-resistance exists between dicyclanil and imidacloprid in the sheep blowfly, and hence the two compounds should be considered as related entities in insecticide rotation strategies for flystrike control.
39399211	Cytotoxicity induced by three commercial neonicotinoid insecticide formulations in differentiated human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells.	Neonicotinoid insecticides are used worldwide for crop protection. They act as agonists at postsynaptic nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), disrupting normal neurotransmission in target insects. Human exposure is high due to the widespread use of neonicotinoids and their residues in food. This study aimed to evaluate the in vitro neurotoxicity of three neonicotinoid commercial formulations Much 600 FS® (imidacloprid 600 g L<sup>-1</sup>), Evidence 700 WG® (imidacloprid 700 g kg<sup>-1</sup>), and Actara 250 WG® (thiamethoxam 250 g kg<sup>-1</sup>) in differentiated human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cell line.
39402966	Toxicity of pesticide cocktails in amphibian larvae: understanding the impact of agricultural activity on aquatic ecosystems in the Salado River basin, Argentina.	Aquatic communities are increasingly exposed to complex mixtures of contaminants, mainly pesticides due to the impact of agricultural activity. The aim of this study was to evaluate the toxicity of an eight-pesticide cocktail on larvae of the South American common toad, <i>Rinella arenarum</i>. The cocktail represents a realistic mixture of insecticides (cypermethrin, chlorpyrifos and lambda-cyhalothrin), herbicides (glyphosate, glufosinate ammonium, prometryn and metolachlor), and a fungicide (pyraclostrobin) previously found in aquatic organisms (<i>Prochilodus lineatus</i>) from the Salado River Basin, an area with strong agricultural pressure. Computational simulations through the Density Functional Tight-Binding method indicated a strong spontaneous trend toward the formation of the cocktail, suggesting that it may act as a novel xenobiotic entity in the environment. The cocktail effects were evaluated in early-developing and premetamorphic larvae, at feasible concentrations found in real scenarios. The mixture led to high mortality and teratogenicity in early-developing larvae. Premetamorphic larvae showed endocrine disruption, oxidative stress, and impairments in detoxification and hepatic functioning. Neurotoxicity, genotoxicity, cardiotoxicity and high mortality under stress conditions were also observed in exposed larvae. This novel evaluation highlights the ecotoxicological risk for aquatic organisms exposed to complex mixtures and underscores the need to consider cocktail effects in studies regarding ecosystems health.
39415959	Neonicotinoid pesticides: evidence of developmental neurotoxicity from regulatory rodent studies.	Neonicotinoids are the most widely used class of insecticides in the United States (U.S.). and the world. Consistent with their high use and persistence, neonicotinoids are often found contaminating drinking water and food. They are also detected in human urine, breast milk, amniotic and cerebrospinal fluids, as well as the brains of treated rodents. Neonicotinoids were once thought to pose little neurotoxic risk to humans, but a growing body of research challenges that assumption. In this study we provide the first comprehensive assessment of unpublished rodent developmental neurotoxicity (DNT) studies on five neonicotinoids that were submitted to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) by neonicotinoid manufacturers. Groups of female rats were administered three different doses of a neonicotinoid during pregnancy and lactation, and their offspring subjected to various neurological tests and brain measurements. We identified nicotine-like effects such as reduced brain size, indicative of neuronal cell loss. Statistically significant shrinkage of brain tissue was observed in high-dose offspring for five neonicotinoids: acetamiprid, clothianidin, imidacloprid, thiacloprid, and thiamethoxam. Two brain regions reduced in the rodent studies-the corpus callosum and caudate-putamen-tend to be smaller in people diagnosed with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and in children of mothers who smoked during pregnancy, suggesting a possible link between perinatal neonicotinoid exposure and ADHD. A decreased auditory startle reflex was reported for acetamiprid at all doses and was statistically significant in the mid- and high-dose offspring, and for clothianidin in juvenile high-dose females. No mid- or low-dose brain morphometric data were submitted for acetamiprid, imidacloprid, or thiacloprid. Thiamethoxam mid- and low-dose brain morphometric data were provided to EPA upon request. Only partial mid-dose brain morphometry data were submitted for clothianidin, but no low-dose data. Yet despite this lack of data, EPA concluded that only the high-dose brain morphometric effects were treatment-related-setting the mid-dose as the study's No Observed Adverse Effect Level (NOAEL) or failing to find a definitive NOAEL for acetamiprid, clothianidin, imidacloprid, thiacloprid and thiamethoxam. We found numerous deficiencies in EPA's regulatory oversight and data analyses. EPA dismissed statistically significant adverse effects, accepted substandard DNT studies despite lack of valid positive control data, and allowed neonicotinoid registrants to unduly influence agency decision-making. We conclude that perinatal exposure to neonicotinoids and their metabolites induces adverse, nicotine-like neurotoxic effects in rodent bioassays, and that the exposure limits set by EPA for human exposure are either not protective or not supported by available neurotoxicity data. We propose regulatory changes to empower EPA to better protect public health from developmental neurotoxins like neonicotinoids.
39419870	An overview on the fate and behavior of imidacloprid in agricultural environments.	This review provides an overview on the fate and behavior of imidacloprid, a neonicotinoid insecticide, in agricultural environments. The study focuses on four key aspects: adsorption and leaching of imidacloprid in soil, degradation and hydrolysis of imidacloprid in soil and water, uptake and persistence of imidacloprid in plants, and volatilization of imidacloprid to the atmosphere. The review presents the latest findings from research on each of these topics. While imidacloprid is highly effective at controlling pests, it is also known to persist in the environment, posing risks to non-target organisms such as bees, birds, and aquatic life. Moreover, there is increasing concern about its potential to accumulate in the soil and water systems, which may have long-term effects on the ecosystem. The review suggests that better understanding of the behavior and fate of imidacloprid in agricultural environments is essential for developing effective strategies to minimize its environmental impact.
7783251	A multidisciplinary approach to toxicological screening: II. Developmental toxicity.	As part of the validation of an integrated bioassay for systemic toxicity, neurotoxicity, and developmental toxicity, we evaluated the effects of four pesticides, four chlorinated solvents, and two other industrial chemicals in Fischer 344 rats. The pesticides included carbaryl, triadimefon, chlordane, and heptachlor; the solvents included dichloromethane (DCM), carbon tetrachloride, trichloroethylene (TCE), and tetrachloroethylene (perchloroethylene, PER); and the industrial chemicals were di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) and phenol. In the developmental toxicity studies, timed-pregnant rats were treated by gavage with vehicle or 1 of 2 dose levels of each compound on gestation d 6-19. The dams were allowed to deliver and their litters were examined on postnatal d 1, 3, and 6. Litter weights were determined on postnatal d 1 and 6. Implants were also counted to determine prenatal loss. Maternal toxicity was evidenced by dose-related alterations in weight gain for all 10 compounds. Clinical signs of maternal toxicity were present for all chemicals except chlordane and heptachlor. DEHP exposure resulted in the most pronounced developmental toxicity (high levels of pre- and postnatal mortality), whereas chlordane induced extensive postnatal loss. Of the solvents, only DCM did not cause a high incidence of full-litter resorption. Phenol, heptachlor, triadimefon, and carbaryl showed only slight potential for developmental toxicity. Malformations suggestive of teratogenicity included kinked tail (phenol), microphthalmia (TCE, PER, DEHP), and cleft palate with renal agenesis (DEHP). Although several findings (eye defects caused by TCE and PER, full-litter resorption and delayed parturition caused by PER, and delayed parturition/dystocia associated with triadimefon) have not been previously reported, the results are generally consistent with previous reports and highlight the importance and relative ease of incorporation of developmental evaluations into a multidisciplinary screening battery.
