pmid	title	abstract	label	text_label	title_clean	abstract_clean	pred
40267515	"Feeling of an Eye When It Meets the Unseen ""Nano""."	Nanomedicine is increasingly being utilized in addressing various eye ailments and holds immense potential in rectifying ocular diseases; however, the interactions between nanomedicines and their route of administration via tear fluid remain poorly understood. When nanoparticles are introduced into the tear fluid, a layer of protein corona is formed on their surface that not only influences the properties and biological fate of nanoparticles but also potentially interferes with the function of endogenous proteins. To investigate the interactions between gold nanoaprticles (AuNPs) and tear fluid, focusing on the physicochemical changes of the particles, and to quantitatively and qualitatively identify the key proteins involved in the corona formation, we employed label-free techniques for material and biophysical characterizations along with proteomic analyses and mass spectrometry. The AuNPs remained stable without forming aggregates, showing only an ∼31 nm increase in hydrodynamic diameter after interacting with tear fluid. Notably, their overall zeta potential increased significantly from -12 to -23 eV due to the supplemented charge by the adsorbed proteins. Proteomic analysis and liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) identified 31 proteins that were bound with the nanoparticles from a total of 174 proteins that were detected in the tear fluid. Bioinformatic classification revealed an enrichment of specific proteins essential for ocular health; proteins such as clusterin, lactotransferrin, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthase, lysozyme, alpha enolase, keratin, apolipoprotein, and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) with pivotal roles in anti-inflammatory, immune response, cell adhesion, cellular organization, plasminogen activation, cell signaling, stress response, and corneal epithelial homeostasis. Overall, our study provides an unresolved comprehensive map of the tear protein corona landscape and its impact on nanoparticle behavior in the tear fluid. These insights must be considered and are valuable for designing safer and more effective nanomedicines for the treatment of various eye diseases.	0	control	"feeling of an eye when it meets the unseen ""nano""."	nanomedicine is increasingly being utilized in addressing various eye ailments and holds immense potential in rectifying ocular diseases; however, the interactions between nanomedicines and their route of administration via tear fluid remain poorly understood. when nanoparticles are introduced into the tear fluid, a layer of protein corona is formed on their surface that not only influences the properties and biological fate of nanoparticles but also potentially interferes with the function of endogenous proteins. to investigate the interactions between gold nanoaprticles (aunps) and tear fluid, focusing on the physicochemical changes of the particles, and to quantitatively and qualitatively identify the key proteins involved in the corona formation, we employed label-free techniques for material and biophysical characterizations along with proteomic analyses and mass spectrometry. the aunps remained stable without forming aggregates, showing only an ∼31 nm increase in hydrodynamic diameter after interacting with tear fluid. notably, their overall zeta potential increased significantly from -12 to -23 ev due to the supplemented charge by the adsorbed proteins. proteomic analysis and liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (lc-ms/ms) identified 31 proteins that were bound with the nanoparticles from a total of 174 proteins that were detected in the tear fluid. bioinformatic classification revealed an enrichment of specific proteins essential for ocular health; proteins such as clusterin, lactotransferrin, adenosine triphosphate (atp) synthase, lysozyme, alpha enolase, keratin, apolipoprotein, and epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) with pivotal roles in anti-inflammatory, immune response, cell adhesion, cellular organization, plasminogen activation, cell signaling, stress response, and corneal epithelial homeostasis. overall, our study provides an unresolved comprehensive map of the tear protein corona landscape and its impact on nanoparticle behavior in the tear fluid. these insights must be considered and are valuable for designing safer and more effective nanomedicines for the treatment of various eye diseases.	1.0
37908211	A Case of Congenital Disorder of Glycosylation Type 1b Presenting as Hyperinsulinemic Hypoglycemia and Failure to Thrive.	We describe initial manifestations, approach to diagnosis, and treatment of a patient with congenital disorder of glycosylation type 1b (CDG 1b), previously managed as acetylcarnitine deficiency. A 9-year-old girl initially diagnosed with and treated for acetylcarnitine deficiency at an outside hospital presented with recurrent hypoglycemia, failure to thrive, poor weight gain, and short stature. She had discontinued levocarnitine therapy because of lack of response, and testing with us demonstrated a normal carnitine and acyl carnitine panel and hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia during a diagnostic fast. Oral diazoxide and hydrochlorothiazide were initiated with resolution of hypoglycemia. She had iron deficiency anemia, but an upper gastrointestinal evaluation was normal. Genetic testing confirmed a diagnosis of CDG 1b caused by deficiency of mannose phosphate isomerase. Oral mannose was started with gradual reduction in and eventual discontinuation of the diazoxide dose. Hypoglycemia in the pediatric age group needs a systematic approach. It is important to raise awareness of CDG 1b, which can present as persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia. Mannose supplementation can ameliorate clinical symptoms and biochemical abnormalities.	0	control	a case of congenital disorder of glycosylation type 1b presenting as hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia and failure to thrive.	we describe initial manifestations, approach to diagnosis, and treatment of a patient with congenital disorder of glycosylation type 1b (cdg 1b), previously managed as acetylcarnitine deficiency. a 9-year-old girl initially diagnosed with and treated for acetylcarnitine deficiency at an outside hospital presented with recurrent hypoglycemia, failure to thrive, poor weight gain, and short stature. she had discontinued levocarnitine therapy because of lack of response, and testing with us demonstrated a normal carnitine and acyl carnitine panel and hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia during a diagnostic fast. oral diazoxide and hydrochlorothiazide were initiated with resolution of hypoglycemia. she had iron deficiency anemia, but an upper gastrointestinal evaluation was normal. genetic testing confirmed a diagnosis of cdg 1b caused by deficiency of mannose phosphate isomerase. oral mannose was started with gradual reduction in and eventual discontinuation of the diazoxide dose. hypoglycemia in the pediatric age group needs a systematic approach. it is important to raise awareness of cdg 1b, which can present as persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia. mannose supplementation can ameliorate clinical symptoms and biochemical abnormalities.	1.0
39031838	Development and validation of a simultaneous quantitative analytical method for two Alternaria toxins and their metabolites in plasma and urine using ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	Much more attention has been paid to the contamination of Alternaria toxins because of food contamination and the threat to human health. In this study, an ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method was developed for the simultaneous detection of the prototypical alternariol, alternariol monomethylether, and the metabolites 4-oxhydryl alternariol, and alternariol monomethylether 3-sulfate ammonium salt of Alternaria toxins. The positive samples were used as matrix samples to optimize the different experimental conditions. 0.01% formic acid solution and acetonitrile were used as the mobile phase, and analytes were scanned in negative electron spray ionization under multiple reaction monitoring, and quantitative determination by isotope internal standard method. Application of this method to samples of human plasma and urine showed the detection of the above analytes. The results showed that the recoveries were from 80.40% to 116.4%, intra-day accuracy was between 0.6% and 8.0%, and inter-day accuracy was between 1.1% and 12.1%. The limit of detection of the four analytes ranged from 0.02 to 0.6 µg/L in urine, and 0.02 to 0.5 µg/L in plasma, respectively. Thus, the developed method was rapid and accurate for the simultaneous detection of analytes and provided a theoretical basis for the risk assessment of Alternaria toxins for human exposure.	0	control	development and validation of a simultaneous quantitative analytical method for two alternaria toxins and their metabolites in plasma and urine using ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	much more attention has been paid to the contamination of alternaria toxins because of food contamination and the threat to human health. in this study, an ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method was developed for the simultaneous detection of the prototypical alternariol, alternariol monomethylether, and the metabolites 4-oxhydryl alternariol, and alternariol monomethylether 3-sulfate ammonium salt of alternaria toxins. the positive samples were used as matrix samples to optimize the different experimental conditions. 0.01% formic acid solution and acetonitrile were used as the mobile phase, and analytes were scanned in negative electron spray ionization under multiple reaction monitoring, and quantitative determination by isotope internal standard method. application of this method to samples of human plasma and urine showed the detection of the above analytes. the results showed that the recoveries were from 80.40% to 116.4%, intra-day accuracy was between 0.6% and 8.0%, and inter-day accuracy was between 1.1% and 12.1%. the limit of detection of the four analytes ranged from 0.02 to 0.6 µg/l in urine, and 0.02 to 0.5 µg/l in plasma, respectively. thus, the developed method was rapid and accurate for the simultaneous detection of analytes and provided a theoretical basis for the risk assessment of alternaria toxins for human exposure.	1.0
37882291	Nitrogen supply alleviates seed yield reduction by improving the morphology and carbon metabolism of pod walls in shaded rapeseed.	Shading significantly affects rapeseed yield, while reasonable nitrogen (N) application has efficiency gains. However, the functions and mechanisms of N are not fully established for shaded rapeseed plants. Therefore, we conducted a 2-year field experiment to study the effect of N on pod wall morphology and carbon metabolism of shaded rapeseed. Two varieties, three N rates (120 [N1], 240 [N2], and 360 [N3] kg hm<sup>-2</sup> ) and two light intensities (100 and 70% light transmission) from 10 to 35 days after the end of flowering were set as experimental parameters. Shading decreased the pod wall chlorophyll content, ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (Rubisco) activity and glucose content at 25 and 35 days after flowering (DAF). Decreased sucrose synthase (SuSy) and sucrose phosphate synthase activity caused by shading reduced sucrose and fructose content. They are responsible for the decline in the 1000-seed weight and a 22.1-37.6% decline in seed yield. More N under shading promoted pod elongation and pigment content, improved chloroplast ultrastructure, increased Rubisco and SuSy activity at 35 DAF, thus contributing to pod wall photosynthesis and fructose and glucose levels in shaded rapeseed plants. Similar trends were observed in pod number, pod weight, and seed weight, while the greatest increase in seed/wall ratio was observed under N2 for shaded rapeseed plants. The results indicated that N can reduce the yield difference between different light conditions and balance partitioning and conversion of photoassimilates in pod wall, but avoid applying an excessive amount of nitrogen.	0	control	nitrogen supply alleviates seed yield reduction by improving the morphology and carbon metabolism of pod walls in shaded rapeseed.	shading significantly affects rapeseed yield, while reasonable nitrogen (n) application has efficiency gains. however, the functions and mechanisms of n are not fully established for shaded rapeseed plants. therefore, we conducted a 2-year field experiment to study the effect of n on pod wall morphology and carbon metabolism of shaded rapeseed. two varieties, three n rates (120 [n1], 240 [n2], and 360 [n3] kg hm<sup>-2</sup> ) and two light intensities (100 and 70% light transmission) from 10 to 35 days after the end of flowering were set as experimental parameters. shading decreased the pod wall chlorophyll content, ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (rubisco) activity and glucose content at 25 and 35 days after flowering (daf). decreased sucrose synthase (susy) and sucrose phosphate synthase activity caused by shading reduced sucrose and fructose content. they are responsible for the decline in the 1000-seed weight and a 22.1-37.6% decline in seed yield. more n under shading promoted pod elongation and pigment content, improved chloroplast ultrastructure, increased rubisco and susy activity at 35 daf, thus contributing to pod wall photosynthesis and fructose and glucose levels in shaded rapeseed plants. similar trends were observed in pod number, pod weight, and seed weight, while the greatest increase in seed/wall ratio was observed under n2 for shaded rapeseed plants. the results indicated that n can reduce the yield difference between different light conditions and balance partitioning and conversion of photoassimilates in pod wall, but avoid applying an excessive amount of nitrogen.	1.0
39036134	Integrative Approach to Address Male Infertility: A Case Study on Organophosphorus Compound Exposure and Traditional Medicinal Interventions.	Factors, including exposure to substances like organophosphorus compounds (OPCs), have been linked to fertility issues, which are a growing concern. In this case study, a 29-year-old farmer and his 26-year-old wife, married for the past five years, faced challenges conceiving despite several attempts. It was found that the husband's exposure to OPCs like chlorpyrifos, malathion, diazinon, etc., had impacted the quality of his sperm. However, after undergoing treatments and making lifestyle changes such as panchakarma therapy and taking Shilajit supplements, there was an improvement in sperm quality. Through in vitro fertilization using physiological intracytoplasmic sperm injection, successful fertilization and the development of high-quality blastocysts were achieved. This case demonstrates the potential for addressing infertility caused by toxins through a blend of traditional medicinal practices and modern reproductive technologies. It underscores the need for research into strategies that can reduce the effects of OPC exposure on male fertility.	0	control	integrative approach to address male infertility: a case study on organophosphorus compound exposure and traditional medicinal interventions.	factors, including exposure to substances like organophosphorus compounds (opcs), have been linked to fertility issues, which are a growing concern. in this case study, a 29-year-old farmer and his 26-year-old wife, married for the past five years, faced challenges conceiving despite several attempts. it was found that the husband's exposure to opcs like chlorpyrifos, malathion, diazinon, etc., had impacted the quality of his sperm. however, after undergoing treatments and making lifestyle changes such as panchakarma therapy and taking shilajit supplements, there was an improvement in sperm quality. through in vitro fertilization using physiological intracytoplasmic sperm injection, successful fertilization and the development of high-quality blastocysts were achieved. this case demonstrates the potential for addressing infertility caused by toxins through a blend of traditional medicinal practices and modern reproductive technologies. it underscores the need for research into strategies that can reduce the effects of opc exposure on male fertility.	1.0
40228058	Effect of aqueous washing on chloride reduction and the storage stability on low-quality crude palm oil prior to refining.	The presence of chloropropanols in edible oils is a significant food safety concern. Chloride in crude palm oil (CPO) is a precursor to the formation of 3-monochloropropane-1,2-diol esters (3-MCPDE) during refining; chloride retention during storage prior to refining remains under investigation. The study examined the impact of different washing treatments and storage duration on total chloride content (TCC), moisture and impurities (M&I), free fatty acid content (FFA), diacylglycerol (DAG), deterioration of bleachability index (DOBI), and iodine value (IV) of CPO. It was demonstrated that washing CPO with distilled water and 3% citric acid (DW+CA) resulted in the highest chloride reduction (37%) after one month of storage. A linear relationship was observed between TCC and FFA levels in the washed CPO, indicating that FFA is a strong predictor of chloride content. The DW+CA treatment also demonstrated a stabilizing effect on FFA levels, potentially mitigating oil deterioration during storage. These findings suggest that implementing DW+CA washing before CPO storage can effectively reduce chloride levels, enhancing the safety and quality of the oil and mitigating the risk of 3MCPDE formation during refining.	0	control	effect of aqueous washing on chloride reduction and the storage stability on low-quality crude palm oil prior to refining.	the presence of chloropropanols in edible oils is a significant food safety concern. chloride in crude palm oil (cpo) is a precursor to the formation of 3-monochloropropane-1,2-diol esters (3-mcpde) during refining; chloride retention during storage prior to refining remains under investigation. the study examined the impact of different washing treatments and storage duration on total chloride content (tcc), moisture and impurities (m&i), free fatty acid content (ffa), diacylglycerol (dag), deterioration of bleachability index (dobi), and iodine value (iv) of cpo. it was demonstrated that washing cpo with distilled water and 3% citric acid (dw+ca) resulted in the highest chloride reduction (37%) after one month of storage. a linear relationship was observed between tcc and ffa levels in the washed cpo, indicating that ffa is a strong predictor of chloride content. the dw+ca treatment also demonstrated a stabilizing effect on ffa levels, potentially mitigating oil deterioration during storage. these findings suggest that implementing dw+ca washing before cpo storage can effectively reduce chloride levels, enhancing the safety and quality of the oil and mitigating the risk of 3mcpde formation during refining.	1.0
37308417	[Effects of adipokine chemerin on the improvement of islet function in diabetic mice by aerobic exercise and its mechanisms].	<b>Objective:</b> To investigate the effects of adipokines chemerin on the improvement of islet function caused by exercise in mice with diabetes, and the possible mechanism of glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1). <b>Methods:</b> Male ICR mice were randomly divided into a control group fed with normal diet (Con, <i>n</i>=6) and a diabetic modeling group fed with 60% kcal high-fat diet (<i>n</i>=44). After 6 weeks, the diabetic modeling group was once given a fasting intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin (100 mg/kg). The successfully modeled mice were divided into diabetes group (DM), diabetes plus exercise group (EDM), and diabetes plus exercise and exogenous chemerin group (EDMC), 6 in each group. Mice in exercise groups participated in a six-week modest intensity treadmill running exercise with a gradually increased load. Mice in the EDMC group were intraperitoneally injected with exogenous chemerin (8 μg/kg) from the 4th week of the exercise period, six days per week, and one time per day. And the other groups were untreated. Adipose chemerin knockout mice were constructed. Then they and the control mice were divided into 6 groups (<i>n</i>=4): Normal diet control group (Con-ND), Normal diet chemerin knockout heterozygote mice group (Chemerin(+/-)-ND), Normal diet chemerin knockout homozygotes mice group(Chemerin(-/-)-ND), High-fat diet control group (Con-HFD), High-fat diet chemerin knockout heterozygote mice group (Chemerin(+/-)-HFD), High-fat diet chemerin knockout homozygotes mice group (Chemerin(-/-)-HFD). They were fed with normal or high-fat diet for 11 weeks and oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) was conducted. After the mice of each group were executed under anesthesia, the samples such as pancreas and colon were collected. Fasting blood glucose (FBG) and fasting insulin (FINS) levels in mice were measured, and the insulin resistance index (HOMA-IR) was calculated. HE staining was used to observe the structure of islets. ELISA was used to detect the GLP-1 level in serum. The mRNA levels of proglucagon (GCG) and chemerin in the colon were measured by real-time PCR. And the protein levels of GCG and chemerin in the colon were detected by Western blot. <b>Results:</b> Compared with the DM group, the vacuolar degeneration and shrinkage of islet cells in the EDM group were reduced, the islet structure was improved, while the levels of FINS, HOMA-IR and FBG were decreased significantly (<i>P</i>＜0.05 or <i>P</i>＜0.01). The colon and serum chemerin levels were decreased significantly(<i>P</i>＜0.05), while the colonic GCG mRNA and protein levels were increased significantly (<i>P</i>＜0.05 or <i>P</i>＜0.01). Compared with the EDM group, the islet cells in the EDMC group were shrunken, with unclear borders. The structure of the islets was damaged, and the levels of FINS, HOMA-IR and FBG were increased significantly (<i>P</i>＜0.01), while the mRNA and protein levels of GCG were decreased significantly (<i>P</i>＜0.05 or <i>P</i>＜0.01). Compared with the Con-HFD group, the blood glucose at 30, 90 and 120 min after oral glucose in the chemerin (-/-)-HFD group was significantly lower (<i>P</i>＜0.01), and the area under the blood glucose time curve was significantly lower (<i>P</i>＜0.01). The islets had clear structure, regular shape and well-defined boundaries, while the serum GLP-1 and colonic GCG protein levels were increased significantly(<i>P</i>＜0.05). <b>Conclusion:</b> Aerobic exercise improves the structure and function of pancreatic islets by reducing the level of chemerin in diabetes mice, which is related to the negative regulation of chemerin on GLP-1 level.	0	control	[effects of adipokine chemerin on the improvement of islet function in diabetic mice by aerobic exercise and its mechanisms].	<b>objective:</b> to investigate the effects of adipokines chemerin on the improvement of islet function caused by exercise in mice with diabetes, and the possible mechanism of glucagon-like peptide 1 (glp-1). <b>methods:</b> male icr mice were randomly divided into a control group fed with normal diet (con, <i>n</i>=6) and a diabetic modeling group fed with 60% kcal high-fat diet (<i>n</i>=44). after 6 weeks, the diabetic modeling group was once given a fasting intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin (100 mg/kg). the successfully modeled mice were divided into diabetes group (dm), diabetes plus exercise group (edm), and diabetes plus exercise and exogenous chemerin group (edmc), 6 in each group. mice in exercise groups participated in a six-week modest intensity treadmill running exercise with a gradually increased load. mice in the edmc group were intraperitoneally injected with exogenous chemerin (8 μg/kg) from the 4th week of the exercise period, six days per week, and one time per day. and the other groups were untreated. adipose chemerin knockout mice were constructed. then they and the control mice were divided into 6 groups (<i>n</i>=4): normal diet control group (con-nd), normal diet chemerin knockout heterozygote mice group (chemerin(+/-)-nd), normal diet chemerin knockout homozygotes mice group(chemerin(-/-)-nd), high-fat diet control group (con-hfd), high-fat diet chemerin knockout heterozygote mice group (chemerin(+/-)-hfd), high-fat diet chemerin knockout homozygotes mice group (chemerin(-/-)-hfd). they were fed with normal or high-fat diet for 11 weeks and oral glucose tolerance test (ogtt) was conducted. after the mice of each group were executed under anesthesia, the samples such as pancreas and colon were collected. fasting blood glucose (fbg) and fasting insulin (fins) levels in mice were measured, and the insulin resistance index (homa-ir) was calculated. he staining was used to observe the structure of islets. elisa was used to detect the glp-1 level in serum. the mrna levels of proglucagon (gcg) and chemerin in the colon were measured by real-time pcr. and the protein levels of gcg and chemerin in the colon were detected by western blot. <b>results:</b> compared with the dm group, the vacuolar degeneration and shrinkage of islet cells in the edm group were reduced, the islet structure was improved, while the levels of fins, homa-ir and fbg were decreased significantly (<i>p</i>＜0.05 or <i>p</i>＜0.01). the colon and serum chemerin levels were decreased significantly(<i>p</i>＜0.05), while the colonic gcg mrna and protein levels were increased significantly (<i>p</i>＜0.05 or <i>p</i>＜0.01). compared with the edm group, the islet cells in the edmc group were shrunken, with unclear borders. the structure of the islets was damaged, and the levels of fins, homa-ir and fbg were increased significantly (<i>p</i>＜0.01), while the mrna and protein levels of gcg were decreased significantly (<i>p</i>＜0.05 or <i>p</i>＜0.01). compared with the con-hfd group, the blood glucose at 30, 90 and 120 min after oral glucose in the chemerin (-/-)-hfd group was significantly lower (<i>p</i>＜0.01), and the area under the blood glucose time curve was significantly lower (<i>p</i>＜0.01). the islets had clear structure, regular shape and well-defined boundaries, while the serum glp-1 and colonic gcg protein levels were increased significantly(<i>p</i>＜0.05). <b>conclusion:</b> aerobic exercise improves the structure and function of pancreatic islets by reducing the level of chemerin in diabetes mice, which is related to the negative regulation of chemerin on glp-1 level.	1.0
39036124	Osteoimmunological Principles Adapted to Achieve Mechanically Superior Posterolateral Fusion in a New Zealand White Rabbit Model Using Antigen-Coated, Electrospun Beta-Tricalcium Phosphate.	Introduction Triggering the immune system via antigenic stimulation at the time of spinal fusion surgery may enhance bone morphogenesis and result in successful bony arthrodesis. We sought to demonstrate that bone morphogenesis could be enhanced via antigenic immunologic stimulation of a surgical fusion site. Methods New Zealand white rabbits underwent non-instrumented posterolateral fusion of L5-6 with implantation of either an immunologically activated graft (inert beta-tricalcium phosphate) or harvested autograft. Fusion was evaluated using plain radiographs, micro-computed tomography (CT), mechanical palpation, and biomechanical testing. The final evaluation was carried out at 12 weeks postoperatively. Results Eight rabbits received immunologically activated grafts; 10 received autografts and served as historical controls. Fusion rates were identical between groups (both 50%). Radiographs and micro CT of the fusion mass showed no significant difference between groups, and both showed good incorporation of the transverse processes into the fusion masses with radiographic evidence confirming trabeculation and bone remodeling. However, mechanical testing of the fusion sites showed superior fusion strength in the rabbits that received immunologically activated grafts, approaching a factor of two on flexion/extension, lateral bending, and axial rotation. Little to no graft material was appreciable in the non-fused antigen-treated specimens. Conclusions There is a long-standing need for a graft material that can replace autograft bone, due to the negative clinical consequences and financial costs pertaining to autologous bone harvesting. No allograft bone substitute to date has been able to reliably replicate the success of harvested autograft bone. This study suggests that immunological enhancement of inert beta-tricalcium phosphate can potentially be a substitute for allograft bone that can meet and even exceed the success of harvested autograft bone.	0	control	osteoimmunological principles adapted to achieve mechanically superior posterolateral fusion in a new zealand white rabbit model using antigen-coated, electrospun beta-tricalcium phosphate.	introduction triggering the immune system via antigenic stimulation at the time of spinal fusion surgery may enhance bone morphogenesis and result in successful bony arthrodesis. we sought to demonstrate that bone morphogenesis could be enhanced via antigenic immunologic stimulation of a surgical fusion site. methods new zealand white rabbits underwent non-instrumented posterolateral fusion of l5-6 with implantation of either an immunologically activated graft (inert beta-tricalcium phosphate) or harvested autograft. fusion was evaluated using plain radiographs, micro-computed tomography (ct), mechanical palpation, and biomechanical testing. the final evaluation was carried out at 12 weeks postoperatively. results eight rabbits received immunologically activated grafts; 10 received autografts and served as historical controls. fusion rates were identical between groups (both 50%). radiographs and micro ct of the fusion mass showed no significant difference between groups, and both showed good incorporation of the transverse processes into the fusion masses with radiographic evidence confirming trabeculation and bone remodeling. however, mechanical testing of the fusion sites showed superior fusion strength in the rabbits that received immunologically activated grafts, approaching a factor of two on flexion/extension, lateral bending, and axial rotation. little to no graft material was appreciable in the non-fused antigen-treated specimens. conclusions there is a long-standing need for a graft material that can replace autograft bone, due to the negative clinical consequences and financial costs pertaining to autologous bone harvesting. no allograft bone substitute to date has been able to reliably replicate the success of harvested autograft bone. this study suggests that immunological enhancement of inert beta-tricalcium phosphate can potentially be a substitute for allograft bone that can meet and even exceed the success of harvested autograft bone.	1.0
39041148	[Study on optimal harvesting period and rational medicinal parts of Zanthoxylum nitidum based on statistics of main effective components].	To determine the optimal harvesting period and rational medicinal parts of Zanthoxylum nitidum, the main effective components of cultivated Z. nitidum samples, which originate from various growth years, harvesting months, and different parts were analyzed and compared with the wild samples. HPLC was performed on a Kinetex C18 column(4. 6 mm×100 mm, 2. 6 μm) with the gradient elution of 0. 3% phosphoric acid solution-acetonitrile(80 ∶ 20) containing 0. 2% triethylamine. The flow rate was 1. 0 m L·min-1, and the detection wavelength was 273 nm. The column temperature was 30 ℃. Nitidine chloride and chelerythrine, the main effective components, were determined as the markers. The results showed there was no significant difference in the contents of the main effective components among the roots of wild and cultivated Z. nitidum, as well as the roots and roots + stems of cultivated Z. nitidum. The statistical results of HCA and PCA indicated that the roots and stems could be clearly distinguished, but no distinction could be made between wild and cultivated products, which was consistent with the results of the significance analysis. The total contents of nitidine chloride and chelerythrine in roots and stems of Z. nitidum of 1-6 years old were 0. 114%-0. 256% and 0. 030%-0. 133%, respectively. These results suggested a positive correlation between the content of the main effective components and the growth years. No significant difference was observed between the contents of samples harvested in different seasons, indicating that the harvest season had no effect on the content of the main effective components of the Z. nitidum samples. The total contents of nitidine chloride and chelerythrine of the dried Z. nitidum samples(excluding branches) from three plantation bases were 0. 308%±0. 123% in Yunfu, 0. 192%±0. 025% in Maoming, and 0. 197%±0. 052% in Nanning, respectively, and they were all not less than 0. 15%, or in other words, the roots(including fibrous roots, taproots, and underground stems) and stems(aboveground stems) of Z. nitidum transplanted for more than 2. 5 years can meet the medical requirements. This study demonstrates that the cultivated Z. nitidum could be used as a valid substitute for the wild Z. nitidum, which provides a guarantee for the sustainable development and the application of Z. nitidum resources. The stems and roots could be considered medicinal parts of Z. nitidum. It is recommended to revise the medicinal parts of Z. nitidum to dried roots and stems in the next edition of Chinese Pharmacopoeia, and the medicinal parts can be harvested all year round. In order to ensure the content of effective components and clinical effectiveness, the root and stem should be harvested for medical use after the seedlings of Z. nitidum have been transplanted for more than three years.	0	control	[study on optimal harvesting period and rational medicinal parts of zanthoxylum nitidum based on statistics of main effective components].	to determine the optimal harvesting period and rational medicinal parts of zanthoxylum nitidum, the main effective components of cultivated z. nitidum samples, which originate from various growth years, harvesting months, and different parts were analyzed and compared with the wild samples. hplc was performed on a kinetex c18 column(4. 6 mm×100 mm, 2. 6 μm) with the gradient elution of 0. 3% phosphoric acid solution-acetonitrile(80 ∶ 20) containing 0. 2% triethylamine. the flow rate was 1. 0 m l·min-1, and the detection wavelength was 273 nm. the column temperature was 30 ℃. nitidine chloride and chelerythrine, the main effective components, were determined as the markers. the results showed there was no significant difference in the contents of the main effective components among the roots of wild and cultivated z. nitidum, as well as the roots and roots + stems of cultivated z. nitidum. the statistical results of hca and pca indicated that the roots and stems could be clearly distinguished, but no distinction could be made between wild and cultivated products, which was consistent with the results of the significance analysis. the total contents of nitidine chloride and chelerythrine in roots and stems of z. nitidum of 1-6 years old were 0. 114%-0. 256% and 0. 030%-0. 133%, respectively. these results suggested a positive correlation between the content of the main effective components and the growth years. no significant difference was observed between the contents of samples harvested in different seasons, indicating that the harvest season had no effect on the content of the main effective components of the z. nitidum samples. the total contents of nitidine chloride and chelerythrine of the dried z. nitidum samples(excluding branches) from three plantation bases were 0. 308%±0. 123% in yunfu, 0. 192%±0. 025% in maoming, and 0. 197%±0. 052% in nanning, respectively, and they were all not less than 0. 15%, or in other words, the roots(including fibrous roots, taproots, and underground stems) and stems(aboveground stems) of z. nitidum transplanted for more than 2. 5 years can meet the medical requirements. this study demonstrates that the cultivated z. nitidum could be used as a valid substitute for the wild z. nitidum, which provides a guarantee for the sustainable development and the application of z. nitidum resources. the stems and roots could be considered medicinal parts of z. nitidum. it is recommended to revise the medicinal parts of z. nitidum to dried roots and stems in the next edition of chinese pharmacopoeia, and the medicinal parts can be harvested all year round. in order to ensure the content of effective components and clinical effectiveness, the root and stem should be harvested for medical use after the seedlings of z. nitidum have been transplanted for more than three years.	1.0
40070537	Isolation and evaluation of growth-promoting endophytic bacteria from <i>Zanthoxylum dissitum</i> Hemsl.	The slow growth rate of <i>Zanthoxylum dissitum</i> Hemsl. (Zanthoxylum) is the important factor causing the scarcity of its available wild resource. It has been reported that the plant endophytes can promote the plant growth and the synthesis of secondary metabolitesby by enhancing the efficiency of nutrient absorption by plants and regulating plant hormones. It is important to explore the promoting effects of endophytes on the growth of Zanthoxylum. The application of high-throughput sequencing technology in this study revealed the presence of three phyla, five classes, seven orders, and eleven genera of endophytic bacteria in Zanthoxylum. The most prevalent phyla, classes, orders, and genera were identified respectively as Proteobacteria, Gammaproteobacteria, Burkholderiales, and Pseudomonas. In this study, an endophytic growth-promoting bacterium was isolated and identified as <i>Sphingomonas</i> sp. The results revealed that the bacterium exhibited robust nitrogen fixation, phosphorus solubilization, and effective siderophore production capabilities. The phosphate solubilization index (SI) was found to be (1.266 ± 0.0157). Following a 48-h incubation period in an inorganic phosphorus liquid medium (PKO), the concentration of auxin (IAA) and gibberellin (GA) reached their highest levels, at (138.145 ± 65.111) μg/mL and (805.74 ± 123.86) μg/mL, respectively. Moreover, the study showed that the endophytic bacteria markedly enhanced the germination potential and rate of sorghum seeds, and promoted significantly the growth of the tissue culture seedlings of Zanthoxylum.	0	control	isolation and evaluation of growth-promoting endophytic bacteria from <i>zanthoxylum dissitum</i> hemsl.	the slow growth rate of <i>zanthoxylum dissitum</i> hemsl. (zanthoxylum) is the important factor causing the scarcity of its available wild resource. it has been reported that the plant endophytes can promote the plant growth and the synthesis of secondary metabolitesby by enhancing the efficiency of nutrient absorption by plants and regulating plant hormones. it is important to explore the promoting effects of endophytes on the growth of zanthoxylum. the application of high-throughput sequencing technology in this study revealed the presence of three phyla, five classes, seven orders, and eleven genera of endophytic bacteria in zanthoxylum. the most prevalent phyla, classes, orders, and genera were identified respectively as proteobacteria, gammaproteobacteria, burkholderiales, and pseudomonas. in this study, an endophytic growth-promoting bacterium was isolated and identified as <i>sphingomonas</i> sp. the results revealed that the bacterium exhibited robust nitrogen fixation, phosphorus solubilization, and effective siderophore production capabilities. the phosphate solubilization index (si) was found to be (1.266 ± 0.0157). following a 48-h incubation period in an inorganic phosphorus liquid medium (pko), the concentration of auxin (iaa) and gibberellin (ga) reached their highest levels, at (138.145 ± 65.111) μg/ml and (805.74 ± 123.86) μg/ml, respectively. moreover, the study showed that the endophytic bacteria markedly enhanced the germination potential and rate of sorghum seeds, and promoted significantly the growth of the tissue culture seedlings of zanthoxylum.	1.0
40104615	Comparison between Indian and commercial chamomile essential oils: Chemical compositions, antioxidant activities and preventive effect on oxidation of Asian seabass visceral depot fat oil.	Antioxidant properties of indigenous Indian (ICO) and commercial (CCO) chamomile essential oils (EOs) and their application in preventing lipid oxidation of fish oil were investigated. Solid-phase micro-extraction gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (SPME-GCMS) revealed dominant compounds to be α-bisabolol and chamazulene in ICO, while α-farnesene and δ-cadinene in CCO. Both EOs exhibited similar 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging activity and oxygen radical absorbance capacity <b>(</b>ORAC) values but ICO showed superior effect in β-carotene/linoleic system. When applied in Asian seabass visceral depot fat oil (SVDFO), ICO (400 mg/L) significantly reduced peroxide values after 15 days (30°C) and slightly lowered thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and anisidine values. ICO (400 mg/L) showed comparable efficacy in preventing the oxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) to 200 mg/L butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) within 0-12 days. Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) analysis confirmed preservation of PUFA double bonds by ICO. Therefore, chamomile EOs, especially ICO, could prevent lipid peroxidation in PUFA-rich oils.	0	control	comparison between indian and commercial chamomile essential oils: chemical compositions, antioxidant activities and preventive effect on oxidation of asian seabass visceral depot fat oil.	antioxidant properties of indigenous indian (ico) and commercial (cco) chamomile essential oils (eos) and their application in preventing lipid oxidation of fish oil were investigated. solid-phase micro-extraction gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (spme-gcms) revealed dominant compounds to be α-bisabolol and chamazulene in ico, while α-farnesene and δ-cadinene in cco. both eos exhibited similar 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (dpph) radical scavenging activity and oxygen radical absorbance capacity <b>(</b>orac) values but ico showed superior effect in β-carotene/linoleic system. when applied in asian seabass visceral depot fat oil (svdfo), ico (400 mg/l) significantly reduced peroxide values after 15 days (30°c) and slightly lowered thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and anisidine values. ico (400 mg/l) showed comparable efficacy in preventing the oxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids (pufas) to 200 mg/l butylated hydroxytoluene (bht) within 0-12 days. fourier transform infrared (ftir) analysis confirmed preservation of pufa double bonds by ico. therefore, chamomile eos, especially ico, could prevent lipid peroxidation in pufa-rich oils.	1.0
40267162	Household-Level Variability of Nontarget Analytical Results for Drinking Water Provides a Tool for Uncovering Constituents Introduced by Distribution System Components.	The variability in the nontarget chemical composition of tap water from 120 households and 15 brands of retail water was analyzed during two seasons. Fifteen households in eight separate community water systems were evaluated with the goal of identifying compounds with high within-source variability and investigating potential origins of the observed variation. High resolution mass spectrometry with liquid and gas chromatography was implemented and 10 chemical features from each water system with the highest coefficient of variation and a tentative library match were prioritized for investigation. This prioritization filter reduced the number of considered features from the 16,929 originally isolated to 282. High confidence structural annotations could be assigned to 134 compounds, which were then categorized based on plausible contaminant inputs. The most common source category was plastic (potentially originating from piping, fittings or packaging), with 47/50 of the GC compounds and 22/40 of the LC compounds having possible plastic-related origins. Other important source categories included other distribution system components (polychlorinated biphenyls, historically used in caulking), disinfection byproducts (trihalomethanes), and contaminants present in source waters at varying levels (sucralose, PFAS). The findings highlight the diverse constituents introduced into drinking water from the distribution system and the importance of assessing chemical exposures via drinking water at the point of use.	0	control	household-level variability of nontarget analytical results for drinking water provides a tool for uncovering constituents introduced by distribution system components.	the variability in the nontarget chemical composition of tap water from 120 households and 15 brands of retail water was analyzed during two seasons. fifteen households in eight separate community water systems were evaluated with the goal of identifying compounds with high within-source variability and investigating potential origins of the observed variation. high resolution mass spectrometry with liquid and gas chromatography was implemented and 10 chemical features from each water system with the highest coefficient of variation and a tentative library match were prioritized for investigation. this prioritization filter reduced the number of considered features from the 16,929 originally isolated to 282. high confidence structural annotations could be assigned to 134 compounds, which were then categorized based on plausible contaminant inputs. the most common source category was plastic (potentially originating from piping, fittings or packaging), with 47/50 of the gc compounds and 22/40 of the lc compounds having possible plastic-related origins. other important source categories included other distribution system components (polychlorinated biphenyls, historically used in caulking), disinfection byproducts (trihalomethanes), and contaminants present in source waters at varying levels (sucralose, pfas). the findings highlight the diverse constituents introduced into drinking water from the distribution system and the importance of assessing chemical exposures via drinking water at the point of use.	1.0
40200885	Design, Synthesis, Characterization and In Vitro Evaluation of Anticholinesterase and Antioxidant Activities of Thiazole-Piperazine Sulfonamide Hybrids.	A series of thiazole-piperazine sulfonamide hybrids (8a-k) were synthesized, characterized and subsequently tested on Alzheimer's disease (AD) targets, including acetylcholinesterase (AChE), butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), and the ABTS radical, to assess their effectiveness. Three of the target analogues 8c, 8e and 8g exhibited augmented inhibition on AChE with IC50 values of 2.52±0.92, 2.99±0.01 and 2.14±0.02 µM, respectively. These analogues also showed strong inhibition selectivity against AChE over BChE. Furthermore, the congeners 8d, 8f, 8h and 8i had remarkable ABTS radical scavenging properties as their IC50 values were in the range of 0.05±0.07 to 0.99±0.12 µM. A study of the kinetics of inhibition of AChE for active analogue 8g revealed a mixed type of inhibition. From the molecular docking experiments, it was clear that the compounds 8c, 8e and 8g were placed optimally within the active site of AChE. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations of these docked complexes indicated that the root mean square deviation (RMSD) of the complexes stabilized below 4 Å.  Furthermore, in silico ADMET prediction studies revealed that the targeted analogs satisfied all the characteristics of CNS acting drugs. Finally, these active compounds are determined to be non-toxic and highly neuroprotective against H2O2-induced cell death in SK-N-SH cell lines.	0	control	design, synthesis, characterization and in vitro evaluation of anticholinesterase and antioxidant activities of thiazole-piperazine sulfonamide hybrids.	a series of thiazole-piperazine sulfonamide hybrids (8a-k) were synthesized, characterized and subsequently tested on alzheimer's disease (ad) targets, including acetylcholinesterase (ache), butyrylcholinesterase (bche), and the abts radical, to assess their effectiveness. three of the target analogues 8c, 8e and 8g exhibited augmented inhibition on ache with ic50 values of 2.52±0.92, 2.99±0.01 and 2.14±0.02 µm, respectively. these analogues also showed strong inhibition selectivity against ache over bche. furthermore, the congeners 8d, 8f, 8h and 8i had remarkable abts radical scavenging properties as their ic50 values were in the range of 0.05±0.07 to 0.99±0.12 µm. a study of the kinetics of inhibition of ache for active analogue 8g revealed a mixed type of inhibition. from the molecular docking experiments, it was clear that the compounds 8c, 8e and 8g were placed optimally within the active site of ache. molecular dynamics (md) simulations of these docked complexes indicated that the root mean square deviation (rmsd) of the complexes stabilized below 4 å.  furthermore, in silico admet prediction studies revealed that the targeted analogs satisfied all the characteristics of cns acting drugs. finally, these active compounds are determined to be non-toxic and highly neuroprotective against h2o2-induced cell death in sk-n-sh cell lines.	1.0
40084892	Comparative proteogenomics reveals ecological and evolutionary insights into the organohalide-respiring <i>Dehalobacter restrictus</i> strain T.	1,1,1-Trichloroethane (1,1,1-TCA) and chloroform (CF) are persistent groundwater contaminants because of their widespread industrial use as organic solvents and improper disposal in the past. Obligate organohalide-respiring bacteria (OHRB), such as <i>Dehalobacter</i> (<i>Dhb</i>), play crucial roles in biotransforming and detoxifying natural or anthropogenic halogenated organics including 1,1,1-TCA and CF through reductive dechlorination. Despite their significance, only five <i>Dhb</i> strains have been associated with the reductive dechlorination of 1,1,1-TCA or CF. Therefore, cultivating and characterizing novel <i>Dhb</i> strains from various environments of different origins worldwide is crucial for understanding the ecology and evolution of <i>Dhb</i> and the associated reductive dehalogenase (RDase) genes. This study reports the enrichment and investigation of a novel <i>Dhb</i> population capable of reducing 1,1,1-TCA to 1,1-dichloroethane, CF to dichloromethane, 1,1,2-TCA to vinyl chloride/1,2-dichloroethane, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene to 1,2-dichlorobenzene. The capability for dechlorinating both aliphatic and aromatic compounds was observed for the first time in the sediment sourced from the Xi River situated in the North China Plain. Comparative genomic analysis of <i>Dhb</i> strains revealed genome contraction might have resulted in the loss of various gene family members, contributing to the syntrophy interactions (e.g., cobalamin, hydrogen, and acetate) of <i>Dhb</i> with other anaerobes (e.g., fermenters and acetogens). Proteogenomic and phylogenetic analysis confirmed the highly expressed 1,1,1-TCA/CF-dechlorinating RDase, designated as TcaA, shared 94.7-96.7% amino acid sequence similarities with RDases, such as ThmA, CfrA, and TmrA. This study expands knowledge on <i>Dhb</i> biogeography and evolution while providing insights into potential syntrophy interactions supporting organohalide respiration by <i>Dhb</i>. The findings have implications for developing the novel biotechnologies for the remediation of halogenated alkane-contaminated sites.IMPORTANCEOrganohalide-respiring bacteria (OHRB) are essential for breaking down harmful pollutants in the environment. This study investigates a newly discovered OHRB capable of degrading multiple contaminants, including persistent 1,1,1-trichloroethane and chloroform. By understanding its unique abilities and interactions with other microbes, we gain valuable insights into how these bacteria evolve and function, enabling the development of improved bioremediation strategies to clean up polluted sites.	0	control	comparative proteogenomics reveals ecological and evolutionary insights into the organohalide-respiring <i>dehalobacter restrictus</i> strain t.	1,1,1-trichloroethane (1,1,1-tca) and chloroform (cf) are persistent groundwater contaminants because of their widespread industrial use as organic solvents and improper disposal in the past. obligate organohalide-respiring bacteria (ohrb), such as <i>dehalobacter</i> (<i>dhb</i>), play crucial roles in biotransforming and detoxifying natural or anthropogenic halogenated organics including 1,1,1-tca and cf through reductive dechlorination. despite their significance, only five <i>dhb</i> strains have been associated with the reductive dechlorination of 1,1,1-tca or cf. therefore, cultivating and characterizing novel <i>dhb</i> strains from various environments of different origins worldwide is crucial for understanding the ecology and evolution of <i>dhb</i> and the associated reductive dehalogenase (rdase) genes. this study reports the enrichment and investigation of a novel <i>dhb</i> population capable of reducing 1,1,1-tca to 1,1-dichloroethane, cf to dichloromethane, 1,1,2-tca to vinyl chloride/1,2-dichloroethane, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene to 1,2-dichlorobenzene. the capability for dechlorinating both aliphatic and aromatic compounds was observed for the first time in the sediment sourced from the xi river situated in the north china plain. comparative genomic analysis of <i>dhb</i> strains revealed genome contraction might have resulted in the loss of various gene family members, contributing to the syntrophy interactions (e.g., cobalamin, hydrogen, and acetate) of <i>dhb</i> with other anaerobes (e.g., fermenters and acetogens). proteogenomic and phylogenetic analysis confirmed the highly expressed 1,1,1-tca/cf-dechlorinating rdase, designated as tcaa, shared 94.7-96.7% amino acid sequence similarities with rdases, such as thma, cfra, and tmra. this study expands knowledge on <i>dhb</i> biogeography and evolution while providing insights into potential syntrophy interactions supporting organohalide respiration by <i>dhb</i>. the findings have implications for developing the novel biotechnologies for the remediation of halogenated alkane-contaminated sites.importanceorganohalide-respiring bacteria (ohrb) are essential for breaking down harmful pollutants in the environment. this study investigates a newly discovered ohrb capable of degrading multiple contaminants, including persistent 1,1,1-trichloroethane and chloroform. by understanding its unique abilities and interactions with other microbes, we gain valuable insights into how these bacteria evolve and function, enabling the development of improved bioremediation strategies to clean up polluted sites.	1.0
40022347	A systematic comparative analysis of ginger-related varieties from three dimensions based on HS-SPME-GC-Q-TOF MS and UHPLC-LTQ-Orbitrap MS.	Ginger is extensively utilized in culinary and traditional medicine worldwide. This study presents a comparative analysis on ginger-related varieties from different species, growth stages, processing methods and geographical origins using headspace solid-phase microextraction gas chromatography quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (HS-SPME-GC-Q-TOF MS) and ultra-high performance liquid chromatography linear-ion-trap-quadrupole orbitrap MS (UHPLC-LTQ-Orbitrap MS). A total of 120 volatiles and 377 non-volatiles were annotated. Metabolomics revealed 44 differential components to discriminate six Zingiberaceae species. Among them, ginger contained the highest levels of chemical components. Additionally, 44 components were found to completely distinguish two growth stages and four processing forms of ginger. As ginger matures, changes in volatiles become more pronounced, while significant differences in non-volatiles were observed across processing stages. Moreover, ginger from three regions was compared, and ginger from Western was found to have more abundant non-volatiles and a higher qualification rate (Yunnan 100 % vs. Fujian 33 %, Henan 15 %). This study maps the chemical profile of ginger and related varieties, providing insights for development of novel products and informing decisions in cultivation, production, and purchasing.	0	control	a systematic comparative analysis of ginger-related varieties from three dimensions based on hs-spme-gc-q-tof ms and uhplc-ltq-orbitrap ms.	ginger is extensively utilized in culinary and traditional medicine worldwide. this study presents a comparative analysis on ginger-related varieties from different species, growth stages, processing methods and geographical origins using headspace solid-phase microextraction gas chromatography quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (hs-spme-gc-q-tof ms) and ultra-high performance liquid chromatography linear-ion-trap-quadrupole orbitrap ms (uhplc-ltq-orbitrap ms). a total of 120 volatiles and 377 non-volatiles were annotated. metabolomics revealed 44 differential components to discriminate six zingiberaceae species. among them, ginger contained the highest levels of chemical components. additionally, 44 components were found to completely distinguish two growth stages and four processing forms of ginger. as ginger matures, changes in volatiles become more pronounced, while significant differences in non-volatiles were observed across processing stages. moreover, ginger from three regions was compared, and ginger from western was found to have more abundant non-volatiles and a higher qualification rate (yunnan 100 % vs. fujian 33 %, henan 15 %). this study maps the chemical profile of ginger and related varieties, providing insights for development of novel products and informing decisions in cultivation, production, and purchasing.	1.0
40202522	Assessing water quality of River Mahananda, Malda, India using Cirrhinus reba as a bioindicator: Oxidative stress biomarkers and histopathological fingerprints.	Environmental pollution has been seen to cause a catastrophic effect on the River Mahananda, Malda, West Bengal, due to the discharge of untreated urban wastes and wastewater into the riverine system resulting in the decline of several local fish species owing to deteriorating water quality. Hence, the objective of this work was to assess the alteration of different physicochemical parameters of water in the River Mahananda owing to pollution during various seasons, and to examine their toxicological effects on the intracellular antioxidant system and histological parameters in Cirrhinus reba. The WPIs of the polluted sampling sites declined significantly from fall to summer. The season-based principal component analysis indicated that TDS, dissolved oxygen, total hardness, total alkalinity, free chlorine, chloride, copper, and zinc were the most common descriptors for the physicochemical alterations of the River Mahananda, reflecting its prominent pollution portfolio. SOD, CAT, GPx, GR, and GSH were found significantly (p < 0.05, p < 0.01, and p < 0.001) decreased in liver of C. reba collected from polluted sites compared to the control. The acetylcholinesterase activity was noted to increase significantly (p < 0.05 and p < 0.01) in an order of S2 > S3 > S4 > S1. A several-fold increase in TBARS level was observed in C. reba collected from polluted sites during summer, compared to the control. Major histopathological changes were observed in summer and spring in liver, kidney and gill tissues of C. reba. In conclusion, while certain principal components were significant predictors for various biochemical parameters, the overall model showed varying degrees of predictive power, highlighting the need for further research with larger sample size and potentially more comprehensive modelling strategies.	0	control	assessing water quality of river mahananda, malda, india using cirrhinus reba as a bioindicator: oxidative stress biomarkers and histopathological fingerprints.	environmental pollution has been seen to cause a catastrophic effect on the river mahananda, malda, west bengal, due to the discharge of untreated urban wastes and wastewater into the riverine system resulting in the decline of several local fish species owing to deteriorating water quality. hence, the objective of this work was to assess the alteration of different physicochemical parameters of water in the river mahananda owing to pollution during various seasons, and to examine their toxicological effects on the intracellular antioxidant system and histological parameters in cirrhinus reba. the wpis of the polluted sampling sites declined significantly from fall to summer. the season-based principal component analysis indicated that tds, dissolved oxygen, total hardness, total alkalinity, free chlorine, chloride, copper, and zinc were the most common descriptors for the physicochemical alterations of the river mahananda, reflecting its prominent pollution portfolio. sod, cat, gpx, gr, and gsh were found significantly (p < 0.05, p < 0.01, and p < 0.001) decreased in liver of c. reba collected from polluted sites compared to the control. the acetylcholinesterase activity was noted to increase significantly (p < 0.05 and p < 0.01) in an order of s2 > s3 > s4 > s1. a several-fold increase in tbars level was observed in c. reba collected from polluted sites during summer, compared to the control. major histopathological changes were observed in summer and spring in liver, kidney and gill tissues of c. reba. in conclusion, while certain principal components were significant predictors for various biochemical parameters, the overall model showed varying degrees of predictive power, highlighting the need for further research with larger sample size and potentially more comprehensive modelling strategies.	1.0
39041156	[Simultaneous determination of maltol and seventeen saponins in red and black ginseng by UPLC-PDA wavelength switching method].	This study developed a UPLC-PDA wavelength switching method to simultaneously determine the content of maltol and seventeen saponins in red and black ginseng and compared the quality differences of two different processed products of red and black ginseng. A Waters HSS T3 column(2. 1 mm×100 mm, 1. 8 μm) at 30 ℃ was adopted, with the mobile phase of acetonitrile(A) and water containing 0. 1% phosphoric acid(B) under gradient elution, the flow rate of 0. 3 m L·min~(-1), and the injection volume of 2 μL.The wavelength switching was set at 273 nm within 0-11 min and 203 nm within 11-60 min. The content results of multiple batches of red and black ginseng samples were analyzed by the hierarchical cluster analysis(HCA) and principal component analysis(PCA) to evaluate the quality difference. The results showed that the 18 constituents exhibited good linear relationships within certain concentration ranges, with the correlation coefficients(r) greater than 0. 999 1. The relative standard deviations(RSDs) of precision,repeatability, and stability were all less than 5. 0%. The average recoveries ranged from 95. 93% to 104. 2%, with an RSD of 1. 8%-4. 2%. The content determination results showed that the quality of red and black ginseng samples was different, and the two types of processed products were intuitively distinguished by HCA and PCA. The method is accurate, reliable, and reproducible. It can be used to determine the content of maltol and seventeen saponins in red and black ginseng and provide basic information for the quality evaluation and comprehensive utilization of red and black ginseng.	0	control	[simultaneous determination of maltol and seventeen saponins in red and black ginseng by uplc-pda wavelength switching method].	this study developed a uplc-pda wavelength switching method to simultaneously determine the content of maltol and seventeen saponins in red and black ginseng and compared the quality differences of two different processed products of red and black ginseng. a waters hss t3 column(2. 1 mm×100 mm, 1. 8 μm) at 30 ℃ was adopted, with the mobile phase of acetonitrile(a) and water containing 0. 1% phosphoric acid(b) under gradient elution, the flow rate of 0. 3 m l·min~(-1), and the injection volume of 2 μl.the wavelength switching was set at 273 nm within 0-11 min and 203 nm within 11-60 min. the content results of multiple batches of red and black ginseng samples were analyzed by the hierarchical cluster analysis(hca) and principal component analysis(pca) to evaluate the quality difference. the results showed that the 18 constituents exhibited good linear relationships within certain concentration ranges, with the correlation coefficients(r) greater than 0. 999 1. the relative standard deviations(rsds) of precision,repeatability, and stability were all less than 5. 0%. the average recoveries ranged from 95. 93% to 104. 2%, with an rsd of 1. 8%-4. 2%. the content determination results showed that the quality of red and black ginseng samples was different, and the two types of processed products were intuitively distinguished by hca and pca. the method is accurate, reliable, and reproducible. it can be used to determine the content of maltol and seventeen saponins in red and black ginseng and provide basic information for the quality evaluation and comprehensive utilization of red and black ginseng.	1.0
40207292	Polysaccharides from sea buckthorn - Ultrasound-assisted enzymatic extraction, purification, structural characterization, and antioxidant activity analysis.	This study employed a sophisticated approach consisting of ultrasound-assisted enzyme treatment to extract polysaccharides from sea buckthorn (SBP). The SBP extraction parameters were optimized, the following optimal parameters were identified: solid-liquid ratio of 1:32 g/mL, ultrasound duration of 26 min, ultrasound temperature of 52 °C, and composite enzyme concentration of 6000 U/100 mL, and the maximum extraction yield of SBP was 24.07 ± 0.15 %. The separation and purification of SBP resulted in the isolation of three fractions of polysaccharides (SBPR-1, SBPR-2, SBPR-3). The composition and structural characteristics of the SBPRs were identified. Furthermore, the SBPRs exhibited the characteristic absorption peaks of polysaccharides. Notably, the surface microstructures of the SBPRs showed significant variations. Moreover, all SBPRs demonstrated commendable thermal stability and in vitro antioxidant activity. This study serves as a reference for the development and application of natural antioxidants and provides a theoretical foundation for the environmentally friendly and effective extraction of SBP.	0	control	polysaccharides from sea buckthorn - ultrasound-assisted enzymatic extraction, purification, structural characterization, and antioxidant activity analysis.	this study employed a sophisticated approach consisting of ultrasound-assisted enzyme treatment to extract polysaccharides from sea buckthorn (sbp). the sbp extraction parameters were optimized, the following optimal parameters were identified: solid-liquid ratio of 1:32 g/ml, ultrasound duration of 26 min, ultrasound temperature of 52 °c, and composite enzyme concentration of 6000 u/100 ml, and the maximum extraction yield of sbp was 24.07 ± 0.15 %. the separation and purification of sbp resulted in the isolation of three fractions of polysaccharides (sbpr-1, sbpr-2, sbpr-3). the composition and structural characteristics of the sbprs were identified. furthermore, the sbprs exhibited the characteristic absorption peaks of polysaccharides. notably, the surface microstructures of the sbprs showed significant variations. moreover, all sbprs demonstrated commendable thermal stability and in vitro antioxidant activity. this study serves as a reference for the development and application of natural antioxidants and provides a theoretical foundation for the environmentally friendly and effective extraction of sbp.	1.0
39020935	Melting curve of two-dimensional Yukawa systems predicted by isomorph theory.	The analytical expression for the conditions of the solid-fluid phase transition, i.e., the melting curve, for two-dimensional (2D) Yukawa systems is derived theoretically from the isomorph theory. To demonstrate that the isomorph theory is applicable to 2D Yukawa systems, molecular dynamical simulations are performed under various conditions. Based on the isomorph theory, the analytical isomorphic curves of 2D Yukawa systems are derived using the local effective power-law exponent of the Yukawa potential. From the obtained analytical isomorphic curves, the melting curve of 2D Yukawa systems is directly determined using only two known melting points. The determined melting curve of 2D Yukawa systems well agrees with the previous obtained melting results using completely different approaches.	0	control	melting curve of two-dimensional yukawa systems predicted by isomorph theory.	the analytical expression for the conditions of the solid-fluid phase transition, i.e., the melting curve, for two-dimensional (2d) yukawa systems is derived theoretically from the isomorph theory. to demonstrate that the isomorph theory is applicable to 2d yukawa systems, molecular dynamical simulations are performed under various conditions. based on the isomorph theory, the analytical isomorphic curves of 2d yukawa systems are derived using the local effective power-law exponent of the yukawa potential. from the obtained analytical isomorphic curves, the melting curve of 2d yukawa systems is directly determined using only two known melting points. the determined melting curve of 2d yukawa systems well agrees with the previous obtained melting results using completely different approaches.	1.0
36811993	Dietary effects of sophorolipids on nutrient bioavailability and intestinal microenvironments in broiler chickens.	Using antibiotics as growth promoter has been banned in poultry feed industry, thus various researchers try to seek an alternative to replace the growth-promoting antibiotics. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the growth performance via intestinal nutrient utilization and cecal microbial composition of broiler after dietary supplementation with most commonly using antibiotics, zinc bacitracin, and sophorolipid. A total of 180 1-day-old chicks were randomly assigned, and dietary treatment was as follow: CON, basal diet; ZB, 100 ppm of zinc bacitracin supplemented diet; and SPL, 250 ppm of sophorolipid supplemented diet. Their growth performance was evaluated and the samples of blood, small intestine, and ileal and cecal digesta were collected for biochemical, histological, and genomic analyses. The body weight and average daily gain of 7-day-old chicks were higher in ZB and those in overall experimental period were improved by ZB and SPL supplementation (<i>p</i> < 0.05). Their intestinal characteristics were not affected by dietary treatments in duodenum and ileum. Nonetheless, villus height was increased by SPL supplementation in jejunum (<i>p</i> < 0.05). Moreover, dietary SPL supplementation could down-regulate the expression level of pro-inflammatory cytokine, <i>IL-1β</i> (<i>p</i> < 0.05). mRNA levels of lipid and protein transporters did not differ among the treatments, however, relative expression levels of carbohydrate transporters, <i>GLUT2</i> and <i>SGLT1</i> were increased in broiler chicken's jejumum fed zinc bacitracin and sophorolipid supplemented diets (<i>p</i> < 0.05). Dietary zinc bacitracin supplementation could increase the population of <i>Firmicutes</i> in phylum level, and the portion of <i>Turiciacter</i> in genus level. On the other hands, the portion of <i>Faecalibacterium</i> was increased by dietary SPL supplementation compared to the other treatments. Our findings suggest that SPL supplementation improves growth performance through enhanced carbohydrate utilization capacity via improvement of gut morphological status and modulation of the cecal microbial population of broilers.	0	control	dietary effects of sophorolipids on nutrient bioavailability and intestinal microenvironments in broiler chickens.	using antibiotics as growth promoter has been banned in poultry feed industry, thus various researchers try to seek an alternative to replace the growth-promoting antibiotics. in this study, we aimed to evaluate the growth performance via intestinal nutrient utilization and cecal microbial composition of broiler after dietary supplementation with most commonly using antibiotics, zinc bacitracin, and sophorolipid. a total of 180 1-day-old chicks were randomly assigned, and dietary treatment was as follow: con, basal diet; zb, 100 ppm of zinc bacitracin supplemented diet; and spl, 250 ppm of sophorolipid supplemented diet. their growth performance was evaluated and the samples of blood, small intestine, and ileal and cecal digesta were collected for biochemical, histological, and genomic analyses. the body weight and average daily gain of 7-day-old chicks were higher in zb and those in overall experimental period were improved by zb and spl supplementation (<i>p</i> < 0.05). their intestinal characteristics were not affected by dietary treatments in duodenum and ileum. nonetheless, villus height was increased by spl supplementation in jejunum (<i>p</i> < 0.05). moreover, dietary spl supplementation could down-regulate the expression level of pro-inflammatory cytokine, <i>il-1β</i> (<i>p</i> < 0.05). mrna levels of lipid and protein transporters did not differ among the treatments, however, relative expression levels of carbohydrate transporters, <i>glut2</i> and <i>sglt1</i> were increased in broiler chicken's jejumum fed zinc bacitracin and sophorolipid supplemented diets (<i>p</i> < 0.05). dietary zinc bacitracin supplementation could increase the population of <i>firmicutes</i> in phylum level, and the portion of <i>turiciacter</i> in genus level. on the other hands, the portion of <i>faecalibacterium</i> was increased by dietary spl supplementation compared to the other treatments. our findings suggest that spl supplementation improves growth performance through enhanced carbohydrate utilization capacity via improvement of gut morphological status and modulation of the cecal microbial population of broilers.	1.0
39011012	The Prevalence of Multidrug-Resistant <i>Escherichia coli</i> in Chennai and Whole Genome Sequence Analysis of Carbapenem-Resistant <i>Escherichia coli</i> ST410.	The current study evaluates antibiotic susceptibility and Extended Spectrum β-Lactamase (ESBL) production of 557 <i>Escherichia coli</i> isolates obtained from clean catch midstream urine samples using VITEK 2 compact automated microbial identification system. Different classes of drugs were used to determine the Minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC). In our study, 50.45% of isolates were ESBL producers. There is a higher incidence of UTI in females (77.4%) than in males (22.6%). The isolates reveal a high percentage of resistance to antibiotics like nalidixic acid (89.59%), ampicillin (75.76%), ticarcillin (73.43%), cefalotin (67.68%), cefixime (65.17%), ciprofloxacin (58.35%) and ceftriaxone (56.37%). An increased susceptibility pattern was observed for the isolates against drug classes like fosfomycin (98.03%) and nitrofurantoin (91.02%). Among the isolates, 395 (70.91%) were classified as Multidrug-resistant organisms based on the resistance pattern observed against three or more classes of antibiotics. One of the isolates resistant to fluoroquinolones, penicillins, penicillins along with β-lactamase inhibitor, aminoglycosides, third-generation cephalosporins and carbapenems was subjected to Whole genome sequencing (WGS). WGS data revealed the isolate to be a high-risk clone ST410, which contains antimicrobial-resistance genes (<i>blaTEM-1B</i>, <i>blaCTX-M-15</i>, <i>blaNDM-5</i>, <i>aac(3)-IId</i>, <i>armA</i>, <i>gyrA(p.S83L), gyrA(p.D87N))</i> conferring resistance to β-lactam, cephalosporins, carbapenem, aminoglycoside and fluoroquinolone class of antibiotics. The core genome MLST was carried out using BacWGSTdb to assess the global phylogenetic relationship of the genome sequence.	0	control	the prevalence of multidrug-resistant <i>escherichia coli</i> in chennai and whole genome sequence analysis of carbapenem-resistant <i>escherichia coli</i> st410.	the current study evaluates antibiotic susceptibility and extended spectrum β-lactamase (esbl) production of 557 <i>escherichia coli</i> isolates obtained from clean catch midstream urine samples using vitek 2 compact automated microbial identification system. different classes of drugs were used to determine the minimum inhibitory concentration (mic). in our study, 50.45% of isolates were esbl producers. there is a higher incidence of uti in females (77.4%) than in males (22.6%). the isolates reveal a high percentage of resistance to antibiotics like nalidixic acid (89.59%), ampicillin (75.76%), ticarcillin (73.43%), cefalotin (67.68%), cefixime (65.17%), ciprofloxacin (58.35%) and ceftriaxone (56.37%). an increased susceptibility pattern was observed for the isolates against drug classes like fosfomycin (98.03%) and nitrofurantoin (91.02%). among the isolates, 395 (70.91%) were classified as multidrug-resistant organisms based on the resistance pattern observed against three or more classes of antibiotics. one of the isolates resistant to fluoroquinolones, penicillins, penicillins along with β-lactamase inhibitor, aminoglycosides, third-generation cephalosporins and carbapenems was subjected to whole genome sequencing (wgs). wgs data revealed the isolate to be a high-risk clone st410, which contains antimicrobial-resistance genes (<i>blatem-1b</i>, <i>blactx-m-15</i>, <i>blandm-5</i>, <i>aac(3)-iid</i>, <i>arma</i>, <i>gyra(p.s83l), gyra(p.d87n))</i> conferring resistance to β-lactam, cephalosporins, carbapenem, aminoglycoside and fluoroquinolone class of antibiotics. the core genome mlst was carried out using bacwgstdb to assess the global phylogenetic relationship of the genome sequence.	1.0
40044138	Functional importance of Ser323 in cysteine desulfhydrase and cystathionine gamma-lyase MccB of Staphylococcus aureus.	Pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP)-dependent enzymes participate in various reactions involved in methionine and cysteine metabolism. The representative foodborne pathogen Staphylococcus aureus expresses the PLP-dependent enzyme MccB, which exhibits both cystathionine gamma-lyase (CGL) and cysteine desulfhydrase activities. In this study, we investigated the role of Ser323 in MccB, a conserved residue in many PLP-dependent enzymes in the transsulfuration pathway. Our findings reveal that Ser323 forms a hydrogen bond with the catalytic lysine in the absence of PLP, and upon internal aldimine formation, PLP-bound lysine is repositioned away from Ser323. Substituting Ser323 with alanine abolishes the enzymatic activity, similar to mutations at the catalytic lysine site. Spectroscopic analysis suggests that Ser323 is essential for the rapid formation of the internal aldimine with lysine in wild-type MccB. This study highlights the crucial role of Ser323 in catalysis, with broader implications for other PLP-dependent enzymes, and enhances our understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in the selective control of foodborne pathogenic bacteria.	0	control	functional importance of ser323 in cysteine desulfhydrase and cystathionine gamma-lyase mccb of staphylococcus aureus.	pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (plp)-dependent enzymes participate in various reactions involved in methionine and cysteine metabolism. the representative foodborne pathogen staphylococcus aureus expresses the plp-dependent enzyme mccb, which exhibits both cystathionine gamma-lyase (cgl) and cysteine desulfhydrase activities. in this study, we investigated the role of ser323 in mccb, a conserved residue in many plp-dependent enzymes in the transsulfuration pathway. our findings reveal that ser323 forms a hydrogen bond with the catalytic lysine in the absence of plp, and upon internal aldimine formation, plp-bound lysine is repositioned away from ser323. substituting ser323 with alanine abolishes the enzymatic activity, similar to mutations at the catalytic lysine site. spectroscopic analysis suggests that ser323 is essential for the rapid formation of the internal aldimine with lysine in wild-type mccb. this study highlights the crucial role of ser323 in catalysis, with broader implications for other plp-dependent enzymes, and enhances our understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in the selective control of foodborne pathogenic bacteria.	1.0
37882282	Sink-source imbalance triggers delayed photosynthetic induction: Transcriptomic and physiological evidence.	Sink-source imbalance causes accumulation of nonstructural carbohydrates (NSCs) and photosynthetic downregulation. However, despite numerous studies, it remains unclear whether NSC accumulation or N deficiency more directly decreases steady-state maximum photosynthesis and photosynthetic induction, as well as underlying gene expression profiles. We evaluated the relationship between photosynthetic capacity and NSC accumulation induced by cold girdling, sucrose feeding, and low nitrogen treatment in Glycine max and Phaseolus vulgaris. In G. max, changes in transcriptome profiles were further investigated, focusing on the physiological processes of photosynthesis and NSC accumulation. NSC accumulation decreased the maximum photosynthetic capacity and delayed photosynthetic induction in both species. In G. max, such photosynthetic downregulation was explained by coordinated downregulation of photosynthetic genes involved in the Calvin cycle, Rubisco activase, photochemical reactions, and stomatal opening. Furthermore, sink-source imbalance may have triggered a change in the balance of sugar-phosphate translocators in chloroplast membranes, which may have promoted starch accumulation in chloroplasts. Our findings provide an overall picture of photosynthetic downregulation and NSC accumulation in G. max, demonstrating that photosynthetic downregulation is triggered by NSC accumulation and cannot be explained solely by N deficiency.	0	control	sink-source imbalance triggers delayed photosynthetic induction: transcriptomic and physiological evidence.	sink-source imbalance causes accumulation of nonstructural carbohydrates (nscs) and photosynthetic downregulation. however, despite numerous studies, it remains unclear whether nsc accumulation or n deficiency more directly decreases steady-state maximum photosynthesis and photosynthetic induction, as well as underlying gene expression profiles. we evaluated the relationship between photosynthetic capacity and nsc accumulation induced by cold girdling, sucrose feeding, and low nitrogen treatment in glycine max and phaseolus vulgaris. in g. max, changes in transcriptome profiles were further investigated, focusing on the physiological processes of photosynthesis and nsc accumulation. nsc accumulation decreased the maximum photosynthetic capacity and delayed photosynthetic induction in both species. in g. max, such photosynthetic downregulation was explained by coordinated downregulation of photosynthetic genes involved in the calvin cycle, rubisco activase, photochemical reactions, and stomatal opening. furthermore, sink-source imbalance may have triggered a change in the balance of sugar-phosphate translocators in chloroplast membranes, which may have promoted starch accumulation in chloroplasts. our findings provide an overall picture of photosynthetic downregulation and nsc accumulation in g. max, demonstrating that photosynthetic downregulation is triggered by nsc accumulation and cannot be explained solely by n deficiency.	1.0
37849587	A Case of Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis Caused by Lamotrigine Combined With Valproic Acid and Literature Review.	After suffering from frequent symptomatic seizures secondary to cerebral hemorrhage, a 58-year-old male patient was prescribed a one-time 50 mg dose of lamotrigine, which he took for a week. However, the patient's seizure symptoms were not controlled until a dosage of 500 mg of sodium valproate tablets was taken twice daily, which ultimately resolved his seizures. Unfortunately, about two weeks after the combination, the patient developed a rash. Nine days later, the patient developed new blisters, necrotizing epidermal desquamation, and lesions over 80% of their body surface area. This was diagnosed as toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) resulting from the combination of lamotrigine and sodium valproate. The sodium valproate and lamotrigine were discontinued and treated symptomatically for about one month. The patient's condition improved as the fatal rash gradually subsided. However, after the onset of TEN, unexpected psychiatric symptoms such as poor sleep, less than four hours of sleep, irritability, paranoia, crying, fear of rash recurrence, and suspicious hallucinations and delusions emerged in the patient. Surprisingly, after discontinuation of lamotrigine and sodium valproate due to the rash, the patient did not experience any further seizures.	0	control	a case of toxic epidermal necrolysis caused by lamotrigine combined with valproic acid and literature review.	after suffering from frequent symptomatic seizures secondary to cerebral hemorrhage, a 58-year-old male patient was prescribed a one-time 50 mg dose of lamotrigine, which he took for a week. however, the patient's seizure symptoms were not controlled until a dosage of 500 mg of sodium valproate tablets was taken twice daily, which ultimately resolved his seizures. unfortunately, about two weeks after the combination, the patient developed a rash. nine days later, the patient developed new blisters, necrotizing epidermal desquamation, and lesions over 80% of their body surface area. this was diagnosed as toxic epidermal necrolysis (ten) resulting from the combination of lamotrigine and sodium valproate. the sodium valproate and lamotrigine were discontinued and treated symptomatically for about one month. the patient's condition improved as the fatal rash gradually subsided. however, after the onset of ten, unexpected psychiatric symptoms such as poor sleep, less than four hours of sleep, irritability, paranoia, crying, fear of rash recurrence, and suspicious hallucinations and delusions emerged in the patient. surprisingly, after discontinuation of lamotrigine and sodium valproate due to the rash, the patient did not experience any further seizures.	1.0
40022371	Regulation of the quality, flavour, and microbial community of industrially fermented split red sour soup by Lentilactobacillus buchneri and Pediococcus ethanolidurans.	In order to study the changes in physicochemical properties, microbial diversity, and flavour substances during the industrial fermentation of split red sour soup (RSS) inoculated with lactic acid bacteria (LAB), two groups of samples from natural and inoculated fermentation were analyzed. The physicochemical properties in inoculated fermentation group were better than those of natural fermentation group. Compared to natural fermentation, inoculated fermentation led to rapid acidification, and the increased contents of key volatile compounds (isoamyl acetate, ethyl acetate, phenylethanol, acetic acid, etc.) in sour soup. The dominant bacterial genera in the inoculation group included Lentilactobacillus, Pediococcus, Lactobacillus and Lactiplantibacillus. The dominant bacterial genera in the natural fermentation group were Pediococcus, Lentilactobacillus, Levilactobacillus, and Weissella. The dominant fungal genera in the inoculated fermentation samples of tomato sour soup were Pichia and Hanseniaspora. The dominant genera in the remaining sour soup samples were Kazachstania. Spearman correlation analysis showed that Lentilactobacillus, Levilactobacillus, and other bacterial genera were positively correlated with phenylethanol, isoamyl acetate, and terpenoids in tomato sour soup, whereas Kazachstania, Pichia, Hanseniaspora, Candida, and other fungal spp. were positively correlated with alcohols 2-undecanol, cis-3-hexenyl acetate, etc. In chilli sour soup, most of the bacterial genera were negatively correlated with volatile flavour compounds. Acetic acid was positively correlated with Hanseniaspora and negatively correlated with Candida. This study revealed the effects of LAB fermentation on the flavour quality and microbial community of split RSS and laid the basis for the industrial production of split RSS.	0	control	regulation of the quality, flavour, and microbial community of industrially fermented split red sour soup by lentilactobacillus buchneri and pediococcus ethanolidurans.	in order to study the changes in physicochemical properties, microbial diversity, and flavour substances during the industrial fermentation of split red sour soup (rss) inoculated with lactic acid bacteria (lab), two groups of samples from natural and inoculated fermentation were analyzed. the physicochemical properties in inoculated fermentation group were better than those of natural fermentation group. compared to natural fermentation, inoculated fermentation led to rapid acidification, and the increased contents of key volatile compounds (isoamyl acetate, ethyl acetate, phenylethanol, acetic acid, etc.) in sour soup. the dominant bacterial genera in the inoculation group included lentilactobacillus, pediococcus, lactobacillus and lactiplantibacillus. the dominant bacterial genera in the natural fermentation group were pediococcus, lentilactobacillus, levilactobacillus, and weissella. the dominant fungal genera in the inoculated fermentation samples of tomato sour soup were pichia and hanseniaspora. the dominant genera in the remaining sour soup samples were kazachstania. spearman correlation analysis showed that lentilactobacillus, levilactobacillus, and other bacterial genera were positively correlated with phenylethanol, isoamyl acetate, and terpenoids in tomato sour soup, whereas kazachstania, pichia, hanseniaspora, candida, and other fungal spp. were positively correlated with alcohols 2-undecanol, cis-3-hexenyl acetate, etc. in chilli sour soup, most of the bacterial genera were negatively correlated with volatile flavour compounds. acetic acid was positively correlated with hanseniaspora and negatively correlated with candida. this study revealed the effects of lab fermentation on the flavour quality and microbial community of split rss and laid the basis for the industrial production of split rss.	1.0
40267416	The Effect of Load on Subphase Analysis During the Hang Pull.	Meechan, D, McErlain-Naylor, SA, Phua, Juan Peng, and Comfort, P. The effect of load on subphase analysis during the hang pull. J Strength Cond Res XX(X): 000-000, 2025-The effect of load on temporally aligned time-series data has yet to be investigated during weightlifting derivatives. Such data may provide greater insight regarding any differences in stimulus between relative loads during each phase. This study compared the effect of load on the force-time and velocity-time curves during the hang pull (HP). Twenty-seven males performed the HP at relative loads of 40, 60, 80, 100, 120, and 140% one repetition maximum (1RM) power clean (PC). A force plate measured the vertical ground reaction force, which calculated the barbell-lifter system velocity. Time-series were time-normalized to 101 data points (0-100% of the movement duration) via piecewise linear length normalization of the individual phases (unweighting, braking, propulsion) and assessed via statistical parametric mapping. Relative loads of 40% 1RM PC maximized propulsion velocity, whereas 140% 1RM maximized force. Statistical parametric mapping analysis showed greater force at 140% 1RM PC throughout 55-100% of total movement duration compared with all loads, with greater propulsion velocity at lighter loads during the propulsion phase (79-100% of the movement) for all loads, with greater negative velocity at 140% 1RM PC compared with 60 and 100% 1RM PC during late unweighting/early braking phase (32-54% of the movement). Braking, propulsion, and total absolute durations increased with load. It may be appropriate to prescribe the HP during a maximal strength and strength-speed mesocycle given the ability to use supramaximal loads.	0	control	the effect of load on subphase analysis during the hang pull.	meechan, d, mcerlain-naylor, sa, phua, juan peng, and comfort, p. the effect of load on subphase analysis during the hang pull. j strength cond res xx(x): 000-000, 2025-the effect of load on temporally aligned time-series data has yet to be investigated during weightlifting derivatives. such data may provide greater insight regarding any differences in stimulus between relative loads during each phase. this study compared the effect of load on the force-time and velocity-time curves during the hang pull (hp). twenty-seven males performed the hp at relative loads of 40, 60, 80, 100, 120, and 140% one repetition maximum (1rm) power clean (pc). a force plate measured the vertical ground reaction force, which calculated the barbell-lifter system velocity. time-series were time-normalized to 101 data points (0-100% of the movement duration) via piecewise linear length normalization of the individual phases (unweighting, braking, propulsion) and assessed via statistical parametric mapping. relative loads of 40% 1rm pc maximized propulsion velocity, whereas 140% 1rm maximized force. statistical parametric mapping analysis showed greater force at 140% 1rm pc throughout 55-100% of total movement duration compared with all loads, with greater propulsion velocity at lighter loads during the propulsion phase (79-100% of the movement) for all loads, with greater negative velocity at 140% 1rm pc compared with 60 and 100% 1rm pc during late unweighting/early braking phase (32-54% of the movement). braking, propulsion, and total absolute durations increased with load. it may be appropriate to prescribe the hp during a maximal strength and strength-speed mesocycle given the ability to use supramaximal loads.	1.0
37133786	Frequency Morphologic and Morphometric Properties and Osseous Relationships of Whitnall's Tubercle.	Whitnall tubercle (WT) of the zygomatic bone is used as an anatomical landmark in some surgical approaches to the orbit. The authors aimed to determine the localization of WT by using some palpable bony landmarks and to reveal its morphological and morphometric features. Three hundred twenty-two zygomatic bones (167 right and 155 left) belonging to adults of unknown sex, were examined. An acetate prepared by drawing a clock with a dial on it was used to determine the localization of WT according to marginal tubercle and zygomatic arch. Distances between WT and frontozygomatic suture and lateral margin of the orbital rim were measured with digital calipers. One zygomatic bone had double tubercles, thus 321 bones were taken into consideration. Whitnall tubercle was determined in 284 of 321 zygomatic bones. 181 were classified as small, 10 as medium, and 93 as large. The position of the WT according to the marginal tubercle was at the 8, 9, and 10 o'clock positions on the left, and at 2, 3, and 4 o'clock on the right. The position of the WT according to the zygomatic arch was at the 9,10 and 11 o'clock positions on the left, and at the 1 and 2 o'clock positions on the right. Distances between the WT and lateral margin of the orbital rim and the frontozygomatic suture were measured meanly as 1.94±0.31 mm and 8.17±5.82 mm, respectively. The authors believe that the data obtained regarding WT will contribute to anatomy and surgical procedures of the related region.	0	control	frequency morphologic and morphometric properties and osseous relationships of whitnall's tubercle.	whitnall tubercle (wt) of the zygomatic bone is used as an anatomical landmark in some surgical approaches to the orbit. the authors aimed to determine the localization of wt by using some palpable bony landmarks and to reveal its morphological and morphometric features. three hundred twenty-two zygomatic bones (167 right and 155 left) belonging to adults of unknown sex, were examined. an acetate prepared by drawing a clock with a dial on it was used to determine the localization of wt according to marginal tubercle and zygomatic arch. distances between wt and frontozygomatic suture and lateral margin of the orbital rim were measured with digital calipers. one zygomatic bone had double tubercles, thus 321 bones were taken into consideration. whitnall tubercle was determined in 284 of 321 zygomatic bones. 181 were classified as small, 10 as medium, and 93 as large. the position of the wt according to the marginal tubercle was at the 8, 9, and 10 o'clock positions on the left, and at 2, 3, and 4 o'clock on the right. the position of the wt according to the zygomatic arch was at the 9,10 and 11 o'clock positions on the left, and at the 1 and 2 o'clock positions on the right. distances between the wt and lateral margin of the orbital rim and the frontozygomatic suture were measured meanly as 1.94±0.31 mm and 8.17±5.82 mm, respectively. the authors believe that the data obtained regarding wt will contribute to anatomy and surgical procedures of the related region.	1.0
37976849	Antibiotic resistance genes and heavy metals in landfill: A review.	Landfill is reservoir containing antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) that pose a threat to human life and health. Heavy metals impose lasting effects on ARGs. This review investigated and analyzed the distribution, composition, and abundance of heavy metals and ARGs in landfill. The abundance ranges of ARGs detected in refuse and leachate were similar. The composition of ARG varied with sampling depth in refuse. ARG in leachate varies with the distribution of ARG in the refuse. The ARG of sulI was associated with 11 metals (Co, Pb, Mn, Zn, Cu, Cr, Ni, Sb, As, Cd, and Al). The effects of the total metal concentration on ARG abundance were masked by many factors. Low heavy metal concentrations showed positive effects on ARG diffusion; conversely, high heavy metal concentrations showed negative effects. Organic matter had a selective pressure effect on microorganisms and could provide energy for the diffusion of ARGs. Complexes of heavy metals and organic matter were common in landfill. Therefore, the hypothesis was proposed that organic matter and heavy metals have combined effects on the horizontal gene transfer (HGT) of ARGs during landfill stabilization. This work provides a new basis to better understand the HGT of ARGs in landfill.	0	control	antibiotic resistance genes and heavy metals in landfill: a review.	landfill is reservoir containing antibiotic resistance genes (args) that pose a threat to human life and health. heavy metals impose lasting effects on args. this review investigated and analyzed the distribution, composition, and abundance of heavy metals and args in landfill. the abundance ranges of args detected in refuse and leachate were similar. the composition of arg varied with sampling depth in refuse. arg in leachate varies with the distribution of arg in the refuse. the arg of suli was associated with 11 metals (co, pb, mn, zn, cu, cr, ni, sb, as, cd, and al). the effects of the total metal concentration on arg abundance were masked by many factors. low heavy metal concentrations showed positive effects on arg diffusion; conversely, high heavy metal concentrations showed negative effects. organic matter had a selective pressure effect on microorganisms and could provide energy for the diffusion of args. complexes of heavy metals and organic matter were common in landfill. therefore, the hypothesis was proposed that organic matter and heavy metals have combined effects on the horizontal gene transfer (hgt) of args during landfill stabilization. this work provides a new basis to better understand the hgt of args in landfill.	1.0
37861908	Analysis of General Toxicity of Ergoferon.	For antibody-based drugs, it is important and relevant to study their toxic effects, which can often become limiting when prescribing this type of therapy. General toxicity of antiviral drug Ergoferon based on technologically processed antibodies was studied on sexually mature animals. Analysis of acute toxicity showed the absence of lethal outcomes when the drug was administered to adult rats at the maximum tolerated doses. In a study of repeated dose toxicity, no adverse effects of the drug were detected.	0	control	analysis of general toxicity of ergoferon.	for antibody-based drugs, it is important and relevant to study their toxic effects, which can often become limiting when prescribing this type of therapy. general toxicity of antiviral drug ergoferon based on technologically processed antibodies was studied on sexually mature animals. analysis of acute toxicity showed the absence of lethal outcomes when the drug was administered to adult rats at the maximum tolerated doses. in a study of repeated dose toxicity, no adverse effects of the drug were detected.	1.0
40201961	Paper and cloth-based microfluidic chips for rapid cysteine detection in deep-sea cold seeps.	In this study, we developed a simple and cost-effective paper and cloth-based microfluidic fluorescence sensing device for the selective and quantitative detection of L-cysteine (L-Cys) in deep-sea water, addressing the need for efficient monitoring of this critical metabolite of deep-sea creatures which acts as a biomarker for tracking these organisms. The device employs gold nanoparticles (Au NPs) immobilized on a cloth-based substrate and rhodamine B (Rh B) molecules. In the presence of L-Cys, strong interactions between L-Cys and the Au NPs release Rh B molecules, restoring fluorescence proportional to the cysteine concentration. The device achieves a low detection limit of 0.52 nM with a dynamic range of 1-100 nM. It demonstrates excellent selectivity over other amino acids, stability over 30 days, and reproducibility. Its practical applicability was confirmed using deep-sea cold seep water samples, yielding recoveries of 98.07%-102.62%. Compared to existing methods, this platform offers enhanced portability, lower cost, and faster response, making it suitable for <i>in situ</i> environmental monitoring.	0	control	paper and cloth-based microfluidic chips for rapid cysteine detection in deep-sea cold seeps.	in this study, we developed a simple and cost-effective paper and cloth-based microfluidic fluorescence sensing device for the selective and quantitative detection of l-cysteine (l-cys) in deep-sea water, addressing the need for efficient monitoring of this critical metabolite of deep-sea creatures which acts as a biomarker for tracking these organisms. the device employs gold nanoparticles (au nps) immobilized on a cloth-based substrate and rhodamine b (rh b) molecules. in the presence of l-cys, strong interactions between l-cys and the au nps release rh b molecules, restoring fluorescence proportional to the cysteine concentration. the device achieves a low detection limit of 0.52 nm with a dynamic range of 1-100 nm. it demonstrates excellent selectivity over other amino acids, stability over 30 days, and reproducibility. its practical applicability was confirmed using deep-sea cold seep water samples, yielding recoveries of 98.07%-102.62%. compared to existing methods, this platform offers enhanced portability, lower cost, and faster response, making it suitable for <i>in situ</i> environmental monitoring.	1.0
40229564	Self-healing crystals.	Self-healing is an intrinsically exciting concept as it applies to the process of recovery, a commonplace phenomenon found in living organisms. Self-healing of artificial materials is as beneficial to living creatures as it is to materials science, wherein the effect can considerably prolong lifetimes. Although self-healing sodium chloride crystals were discovered in the 1980s, the field entered a renaissance when healing was observed in the emerging materials class of molecular crystals in 2016. Self-healing properties in polymers, cementitious materials, and coatings have already found commercial applications. The reinvigorated interest in self-healing molecular crystals stems from their prospects as durable, lightweight and flexible emissive or electronic materials. Ideally being defectless and ordered media, organic crystals have unique optical, mechanical and electrical properties, and the possibility of self-healing substantially increases their viability for smart devices.	0	control	self-healing crystals.	self-healing is an intrinsically exciting concept as it applies to the process of recovery, a commonplace phenomenon found in living organisms. self-healing of artificial materials is as beneficial to living creatures as it is to materials science, wherein the effect can considerably prolong lifetimes. although self-healing sodium chloride crystals were discovered in the 1980s, the field entered a renaissance when healing was observed in the emerging materials class of molecular crystals in 2016. self-healing properties in polymers, cementitious materials, and coatings have already found commercial applications. the reinvigorated interest in self-healing molecular crystals stems from their prospects as durable, lightweight and flexible emissive or electronic materials. ideally being defectless and ordered media, organic crystals have unique optical, mechanical and electrical properties, and the possibility of self-healing substantially increases their viability for smart devices.	1.0
36812002	Study on the reduction of heterocyclic amines by marinated natural materials in pork belly.	This study was conducted to determine the effect of natural ingredient seasoning on the reduction of heterocyclic amine (HCA) production that may occur when pork belly is cooked at a very high temperature for a long time. Pork belly seasoned with natural ingredients, such as natural spices, blackcurrant, and gochujang, was cooked using the most common cooking methods, such as boiling, pan fry, and barbecue. HCAs in pork belly were extracted through solid-phase extraction and analyzed via high-performance liquid chromatography. For short-term toxicity, a mouse model was used to analyze weight, feed intake, organ weight, and length; hematology and serology analysis were also performed. Results revealed that HCAs formed only when heating was performed at a very high temperature for a long time, not under general cooking conditions. Although the toxicity levels were not dangerous, the method showing the relatively highest toxicity among various cooking methods was barbecue, and the natural material with the highest toxicity reduction effect was blackcurrant. Furthermore, seasoning pork belly with natural materials containing a large amount of antioxidants, such as vitamin C, can reduce the production of toxic substances, such as HCAs, even if pork belly is heated to high temperatures.	0	control	study on the reduction of heterocyclic amines by marinated natural materials in pork belly.	this study was conducted to determine the effect of natural ingredient seasoning on the reduction of heterocyclic amine (hca) production that may occur when pork belly is cooked at a very high temperature for a long time. pork belly seasoned with natural ingredients, such as natural spices, blackcurrant, and gochujang, was cooked using the most common cooking methods, such as boiling, pan fry, and barbecue. hcas in pork belly were extracted through solid-phase extraction and analyzed via high-performance liquid chromatography. for short-term toxicity, a mouse model was used to analyze weight, feed intake, organ weight, and length; hematology and serology analysis were also performed. results revealed that hcas formed only when heating was performed at a very high temperature for a long time, not under general cooking conditions. although the toxicity levels were not dangerous, the method showing the relatively highest toxicity among various cooking methods was barbecue, and the natural material with the highest toxicity reduction effect was blackcurrant. furthermore, seasoning pork belly with natural materials containing a large amount of antioxidants, such as vitamin c, can reduce the production of toxic substances, such as hcas, even if pork belly is heated to high temperatures.	1.0
40268825	Performance of an integrated system composed of native soil amended with ZVI/FeS nanoparticles-based technosols and a bioreactor for the treatment of acid rock drainage.	We assessed combined, low-cost physical-chemical and biological treatment system for the remediation of acid rock drainage (ARD). Two columns composed of native soil amended with zero valent iron and iron sulfide (ZVI/FeS) nanoparticles-based Technosols were connected to a sulfate-reducing (SR) bioreactor; this integrated treatment system was fed with ARD obtained from mines in El Oro, Ecuador. A control sulfate-reducing bioreactor fed directly with ARD was run in parallel. The bioreactors were operated dynamically for four periods, and every 21 days, the fraction of ARD in the influent was increased stepwise from 25 to 100%. The integrated treatment system demonstrated superior removal efficiencies for Fe (99%), As (99.9%), Cd (99%), Cu (98%), Mn (91%), and Zn (99.9%), while both bioreactors achieved similar sulfate reduction (50-52%) and raised ARD pH from 2.75 to ~ 8. However, the ZVI/FeS nanoparticles-based Technosols significantly improved the removal of As (99.9% vs. 68%) and Mn (91% vs. 71%), compared to the control bioreactor. Molecular ecology analysis of the biomass in the bioreactors using 16S rRNA sequencing revealed that higher ARD concentrations enhanced sulfidogenesis, promoting beneficial interactions within communities in the sulfate-reducing niche. This study highlights the value of the ZVI/FeS nanoparticles-based Technosols in optimizing ARD bioremediation, offering a promising solution for mining effluent management in low-middle-income countries (LMIC).	0	control	performance of an integrated system composed of native soil amended with zvi/fes nanoparticles-based technosols and a bioreactor for the treatment of acid rock drainage.	we assessed combined, low-cost physical-chemical and biological treatment system for the remediation of acid rock drainage (ard). two columns composed of native soil amended with zero valent iron and iron sulfide (zvi/fes) nanoparticles-based technosols were connected to a sulfate-reducing (sr) bioreactor; this integrated treatment system was fed with ard obtained from mines in el oro, ecuador. a control sulfate-reducing bioreactor fed directly with ard was run in parallel. the bioreactors were operated dynamically for four periods, and every 21 days, the fraction of ard in the influent was increased stepwise from 25 to 100%. the integrated treatment system demonstrated superior removal efficiencies for fe (99%), as (99.9%), cd (99%), cu (98%), mn (91%), and zn (99.9%), while both bioreactors achieved similar sulfate reduction (50-52%) and raised ard ph from 2.75 to ~ 8. however, the zvi/fes nanoparticles-based technosols significantly improved the removal of as (99.9% vs. 68%) and mn (91% vs. 71%), compared to the control bioreactor. molecular ecology analysis of the biomass in the bioreactors using 16s rrna sequencing revealed that higher ard concentrations enhanced sulfidogenesis, promoting beneficial interactions within communities in the sulfate-reducing niche. this study highlights the value of the zvi/fes nanoparticles-based technosols in optimizing ard bioremediation, offering a promising solution for mining effluent management in low-middle-income countries (lmic).	1.0
40257145	Extended spectrum, AmpC & metallo β-lactamases producing Escherichia coli in urinary isolates: A prospective study in north India.	Background & objectives One of the most prevalent bacterial illnesses in humans is the urinary tract infection (UTI), which is frequently brought on by Escherichia coli. The purpose of this study was to assess the antibiotic sensitivity pattern of E. coli that causes UTIs and identify the presence of extended spectrum β-lactamases (ESBL), AmpC β-lactamases (AmpC), and metallo β-lactamases (MBL) using a variety of phenotypic techniques. Methods After urine samples were inoculated on cysteine lactose-deficient agar culture media, isolated colonies were identified using standard biochemical tests. These isolates were then screened using different phenotypic confirmatory methods for β-lactamase detection and the Clinical Laboratory and Standards Institute (CLSI) guidelines. Results Out of the total urine samples, 7.08 per cent (177/2500) were positive for the growth of E. coli, out of which 40.11 per cent (71/177) were multi-drug resistant. Among the 71 isolates, 31 per cent were ESBL producers, 62 per cent were AmpC producers, and 7.04 and 4.22 per cent were co-producers of ESBL and AmpC, and AmpC and MBL, respectively. The E. coli isolates were found to be highly resistant to ciprofloxacin (83.61%), amoxicillin/clavulanate (81.92%), and gentamicin (61%). However, these were sensitive to imipenem (98.3%), fosfomycin (97.17%), and nitrofurantoin (94.35%). Interpretation & conclusions Early detection of various resistance patterns as well as understanding of the local susceptibility patterns among E. coli strains causing UTIs, are imperative for accurate treatment modalities. This knowledge would subsequently contribute to the management of antibiotic resistance and surveillance.	0	control	extended spectrum, ampc & metallo β-lactamases producing escherichia coli in urinary isolates: a prospective study in north india.	background & objectives one of the most prevalent bacterial illnesses in humans is the urinary tract infection (uti), which is frequently brought on by escherichia coli. the purpose of this study was to assess the antibiotic sensitivity pattern of e. coli that causes utis and identify the presence of extended spectrum β-lactamases (esbl), ampc β-lactamases (ampc), and metallo β-lactamases (mbl) using a variety of phenotypic techniques. methods after urine samples were inoculated on cysteine lactose-deficient agar culture media, isolated colonies were identified using standard biochemical tests. these isolates were then screened using different phenotypic confirmatory methods for β-lactamase detection and the clinical laboratory and standards institute (clsi) guidelines. results out of the total urine samples, 7.08 per cent (177/2500) were positive for the growth of e. coli, out of which 40.11 per cent (71/177) were multi-drug resistant. among the 71 isolates, 31 per cent were esbl producers, 62 per cent were ampc producers, and 7.04 and 4.22 per cent were co-producers of esbl and ampc, and ampc and mbl, respectively. the e. coli isolates were found to be highly resistant to ciprofloxacin (83.61%), amoxicillin/clavulanate (81.92%), and gentamicin (61%). however, these were sensitive to imipenem (98.3%), fosfomycin (97.17%), and nitrofurantoin (94.35%). interpretation & conclusions early detection of various resistance patterns as well as understanding of the local susceptibility patterns among e. coli strains causing utis, are imperative for accurate treatment modalities. this knowledge would subsequently contribute to the management of antibiotic resistance and surveillance.	1.0
40227306	Effects of empagliflozin and its combination with docetaxel on LNCaP and DU- 145 prostate cancer cell lines: cytotoxicity and molecular pathway analysis.	Sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors have gained attention for their potential therapeutic applications in cancer treatment. Recent Mendelian randomization and observational analyses support the protective role of SGLT2 inhibition in reducing prostate cancer risk. Additionally, SGLT2 expression in prostate cancer patient samples has been confirmed through immunohistochemistry. The therapeutic potential of empagliflozin, a selective SGLT2 inhibitor, in treating prostate cancer, either alone or with chemotherapeutic agents like docetaxel, remains largely unexplored. This study investigated the cytotoxic and synergistic effects of empagliflozin in combination with docetaxel in LNCaP and DU- 145 prostate cancer cells. Cell viability was assessed using the MTT assay, and synergy was evaluated using the Chou-Talalay method. Western blot analysis was conducted to examine the effects of empagliflozin, alone and in combination with docetaxel, on key molecular targets, including p-AMPKα, p-p70S6 K1, p-PRAS40, and p-Akt. Empagliflozin exhibited concentration-dependent cytotoxic effects in both LNCaP and DU- 145 cells, with a higher potency observed in DU- 145 cells. When combined with docetaxel, empagliflozin demonstrated synergistic activity, as indicated by combination index values < 1. Empagliflozin upregulated p-AMPKα and downregulated p-p70S6 K1 and p-PRAS40. The combination with docetaxel further enhanced these effects. Notably, empagliflozin alone downregulated p-Akt in LNCaP cells but not in DU- 145 cells, highlighting cell-line-specific differences. Empagliflozin reduces prostate cancer cell viability and enhances the cytotoxic effects of docetaxel, suggesting a promising combination strategy for prostate cancer therapy. Additional in vivo studies and clinical trials are needed to assess the translational relevance of these findings.	0	control	effects of empagliflozin and its combination with docetaxel on lncap and du- 145 prostate cancer cell lines: cytotoxicity and molecular pathway analysis.	sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (sglt2) inhibitors have gained attention for their potential therapeutic applications in cancer treatment. recent mendelian randomization and observational analyses support the protective role of sglt2 inhibition in reducing prostate cancer risk. additionally, sglt2 expression in prostate cancer patient samples has been confirmed through immunohistochemistry. the therapeutic potential of empagliflozin, a selective sglt2 inhibitor, in treating prostate cancer, either alone or with chemotherapeutic agents like docetaxel, remains largely unexplored. this study investigated the cytotoxic and synergistic effects of empagliflozin in combination with docetaxel in lncap and du- 145 prostate cancer cells. cell viability was assessed using the mtt assay, and synergy was evaluated using the chou-talalay method. western blot analysis was conducted to examine the effects of empagliflozin, alone and in combination with docetaxel, on key molecular targets, including p-ampkα, p-p70s6 k1, p-pras40, and p-akt. empagliflozin exhibited concentration-dependent cytotoxic effects in both lncap and du- 145 cells, with a higher potency observed in du- 145 cells. when combined with docetaxel, empagliflozin demonstrated synergistic activity, as indicated by combination index values < 1. empagliflozin upregulated p-ampkα and downregulated p-p70s6 k1 and p-pras40. the combination with docetaxel further enhanced these effects. notably, empagliflozin alone downregulated p-akt in lncap cells but not in du- 145 cells, highlighting cell-line-specific differences. empagliflozin reduces prostate cancer cell viability and enhances the cytotoxic effects of docetaxel, suggesting a promising combination strategy for prostate cancer therapy. additional in vivo studies and clinical trials are needed to assess the translational relevance of these findings.	1.0
40197573	Ion-dip and laser photoexcitation spectroscopy of high Rydberg states in N2.	N2 molecules in pulsed supersonic beams have been laser photoexcited from their X Σg+1 ground electronic state to selected singlet np and nf Rydberg states using a (2 + 1') two-color three-photon excitation scheme. This required the competition between (2 + 1) resonance-enhanced multiphoton ionization and (2 + 1') Rydberg state photoexcitation to be carefully balanced. This was achieved by performing ion-dip spectroscopy in which the signal from the N2+ cations generated by direct photoionization was selectively detected and seen to reduce under conditions in which the predissociative np Rydberg states, or long-lived nf Rydberg states, were populated. The predissocation rates of the np Rydberg states were determined from the n-dependence of the spectral widths of the transitions to them. The long-lived Rydberg states populated by excitation on nf resonances are suitable for deceleration and electrostatically trapping cold samples of N2 using inhomogeneous electric fields.	0	control	ion-dip and laser photoexcitation spectroscopy of high rydberg states in n2.	n2 molecules in pulsed supersonic beams have been laser photoexcited from their x σg+1 ground electronic state to selected singlet np and nf rydberg states using a (2 + 1') two-color three-photon excitation scheme. this required the competition between (2 + 1) resonance-enhanced multiphoton ionization and (2 + 1') rydberg state photoexcitation to be carefully balanced. this was achieved by performing ion-dip spectroscopy in which the signal from the n2+ cations generated by direct photoionization was selectively detected and seen to reduce under conditions in which the predissociative np rydberg states, or long-lived nf rydberg states, were populated. the predissocation rates of the np rydberg states were determined from the n-dependence of the spectral widths of the transitions to them. the long-lived rydberg states populated by excitation on nf resonances are suitable for deceleration and electrostatically trapping cold samples of n2 using inhomogeneous electric fields.	1.0
40266832	TRS85 and LEM3 suppressor mutations rescue stress hypersensitivities caused by lack of structural diversity of complex sphingolipids in budding yeast.	The budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae can synthesise 15 subtypes of complex sphingolipids, and this structural diversity is thought to be the molecular basis that enables the range of biological functions of complex sphingolipids. Through analyses of yeast mutants with various deletion combinations of complex-sphingolipid-metabolising enzyme genes (CSG1, CSH1, IPT1, SUR2 and SCS7), it was previously shown that less structural diversity of complex sphingolipids leads to increased sensitivity to multiple environmental stresses, with impaired plasma-membrane and cell-wall integrity. In this study, we screened for suppressor mutations that can alleviate the stress hypersensitivities of csg1Δ csh1Δ sur2Δ scs7Δ (ccssΔ) cells. Mutations of trafficking protein particle complex III-specific subunit 85 (TRS85; encodes a component of the TRAPPIII complex, involved in membrane trafficking) and phospholipid-transporting ATPase Dnf2 (DNF2; encodes the plasma-membrane glycerophospholipid flippase) were identified as suppressor mutations. Loss of Trs85 or phospholipid-transporting ATPase accessory subunit Lem3 (LEM3; encodes a regulatory subunit of Dnf2) differed in the type of stress being conferred resistance to ccss∆ cells. Furthermore, it was also found that impaired plasma-membrane and cell-wall integrities in ccssΔ cells were suppressed by trs85∆ but not lem3∆. Moreover, ccss∆ cells exhibited abnormal localisation of yeGFP-Snc1 in endosomes, which is suppressed by trs85∆ but not lem3∆. Overexpression of GTP-binding protein Ypt1, which is regulated by TRAPPIII and involved in vesicular trafficking, exacerbated plasma-membrane integrity abnormalities and stress sensitivities in ccss∆ cells. Thus, it was suggested that TRS85 and LEM3 deletion confer stress tolerances to ccssΔ cells through distinct mechanisms. These findings will provide insights into the physiological significance of the structural diversity of complex sphingolipids.	0	control	trs85 and lem3 suppressor mutations rescue stress hypersensitivities caused by lack of structural diversity of complex sphingolipids in budding yeast.	the budding yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae can synthesise 15 subtypes of complex sphingolipids, and this structural diversity is thought to be the molecular basis that enables the range of biological functions of complex sphingolipids. through analyses of yeast mutants with various deletion combinations of complex-sphingolipid-metabolising enzyme genes (csg1, csh1, ipt1, sur2 and scs7), it was previously shown that less structural diversity of complex sphingolipids leads to increased sensitivity to multiple environmental stresses, with impaired plasma-membrane and cell-wall integrity. in this study, we screened for suppressor mutations that can alleviate the stress hypersensitivities of csg1δ csh1δ sur2δ scs7δ (ccssδ) cells. mutations of trafficking protein particle complex iii-specific subunit 85 (trs85; encodes a component of the trappiii complex, involved in membrane trafficking) and phospholipid-transporting atpase dnf2 (dnf2; encodes the plasma-membrane glycerophospholipid flippase) were identified as suppressor mutations. loss of trs85 or phospholipid-transporting atpase accessory subunit lem3 (lem3; encodes a regulatory subunit of dnf2) differed in the type of stress being conferred resistance to ccss∆ cells. furthermore, it was also found that impaired plasma-membrane and cell-wall integrities in ccssδ cells were suppressed by trs85∆ but not lem3∆. moreover, ccss∆ cells exhibited abnormal localisation of yegfp-snc1 in endosomes, which is suppressed by trs85∆ but not lem3∆. overexpression of gtp-binding protein ypt1, which is regulated by trappiii and involved in vesicular trafficking, exacerbated plasma-membrane integrity abnormalities and stress sensitivities in ccss∆ cells. thus, it was suggested that trs85 and lem3 deletion confer stress tolerances to ccssδ cells through distinct mechanisms. these findings will provide insights into the physiological significance of the structural diversity of complex sphingolipids.	1.0
40072930	Eficacia y seguridad del ácido hipocloroso pH 5,5 en el manejo de heridas complejas en usuarios pediátricos.	Serie de casos que sugieren los beneficios de la implementación de una solución limpiadora no citotóxica de pH ácido en el tratamiento de heridas complejas en usuarios pediátricos en dos centros de salud de Santiago, Chile. Se propone como tratamiento adicional al manejo etiológico el uso de una solución limpiadora compuesta de ácido hipocloroso (HOCl) en una concentración de 330 ppm y pH 5,5 (Vashe® Wound Solution, Urgo Medical, Texas, Estados Unidos) la cual ha demostrado ser segura y efectiva en el manejo de heridas en usuarios pediátricos. Se evidencian beneficios significativos en términos de cicatrización acelerada y reducción del dolor en los casos tratados. Aunque existen limitaciones en la evidencia actual, los resultados preliminares sugieren que el HOCl pH 5,5 puede ser una opción terapéutica efectiva en el manejo de heridas y alteraciones cutáneas en el usuario pediátrico.	0	control	eficacia y seguridad del ácido hipocloroso ph 5,5 en el manejo de heridas complejas en usuarios pediátricos.	serie de casos que sugieren los beneficios de la implementación de una solución limpiadora no citotóxica de ph ácido en el tratamiento de heridas complejas en usuarios pediátricos en dos centros de salud de santiago, chile. se propone como tratamiento adicional al manejo etiológico el uso de una solución limpiadora compuesta de ácido hipocloroso (hocl) en una concentración de 330 ppm y ph 5,5 (vashe® wound solution, urgo medical, texas, estados unidos) la cual ha demostrado ser segura y efectiva en el manejo de heridas en usuarios pediátricos. se evidencian beneficios significativos en términos de cicatrización acelerada y reducción del dolor en los casos tratados. aunque existen limitaciones en la evidencia actual, los resultados preliminares sugieren que el hocl ph 5,5 puede ser una opción terapéutica efectiva en el manejo de heridas y alteraciones cutáneas en el usuario pediátrico.	1.0
40268769	Gastrointestinal-Ocular Toxicity Following Systematic Ingestion of Nickel-Cadmium Contaminated Water in Wistar Rats Demonstrates Possible Health Complications Characterized by Oxidative Stress, Inflammatory and Histological Changes.	The study evaluated the biochemical and histopathological alterations of subacute nickel (Ni) and cadmium (Cd) exposure on the gastrointestinal and ocular systems of male Wistar albino rats via ingestion of contaminated water. Four groups of six rats each were exposed to uncontaminated water (group A as control), 100 mg/L of Cd (group B), 100 mg/L of Ni (group C), and a combination of 100 mg/L Cd and Ni (group D) for 28 days. The stomach, intestinal, and ocular weights were recorded and were significantly reduced (p ≤ 0.05) in the treatment groups when compared to the control, but the effect was profound in group D rats, as compared with groups B and C rats. The assessed amylase, lipase, and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activities were significantly impaired (p > 0.05) in the tissues with some exceptions among treatment groups relative to the control. The increased stomach, intestinal, and ocular malondialdehyde (MDA) levels (p ≤ 0.05) affirmed the induction of oxidative stress among treatment groups with depleted antioxidant defense system in assessed tissues, but no significant change (p > 0.05) in ocular reduced glutathione (GSH) level was observed, as compared with the control. The tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and interleukin-10 (IL-10) levels assessed were significantly elevated (p ≤ 0.05) in the tissues of groups B and D rats with some exceptions among group C rats when compared to the control. The histological alteration characterized by cellular degeneration, oxidative damage, inflammation, and tissue necrosis further affirmed the synergistic impacts with indications of gastritis, retinal dysfunction, and ocular impairment in predisposed rats.	0	control	gastrointestinal-ocular toxicity following systematic ingestion of nickel-cadmium contaminated water in wistar rats demonstrates possible health complications characterized by oxidative stress, inflammatory and histological changes.	the study evaluated the biochemical and histopathological alterations of subacute nickel (ni) and cadmium (cd) exposure on the gastrointestinal and ocular systems of male wistar albino rats via ingestion of contaminated water. four groups of six rats each were exposed to uncontaminated water (group a as control), 100 mg/l of cd (group b), 100 mg/l of ni (group c), and a combination of 100 mg/l cd and ni (group d) for 28 days. the stomach, intestinal, and ocular weights were recorded and were significantly reduced (p ≤ 0.05) in the treatment groups when compared to the control, but the effect was profound in group d rats, as compared with groups b and c rats. the assessed amylase, lipase, and alkaline phosphatase (alp) activities were significantly impaired (p > 0.05) in the tissues with some exceptions among treatment groups relative to the control. the increased stomach, intestinal, and ocular malondialdehyde (mda) levels (p ≤ 0.05) affirmed the induction of oxidative stress among treatment groups with depleted antioxidant defense system in assessed tissues, but no significant change (p > 0.05) in ocular reduced glutathione (gsh) level was observed, as compared with the control. the tumour necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-α), interleukin-6 (il-6), and interleukin-10 (il-10) levels assessed were significantly elevated (p ≤ 0.05) in the tissues of groups b and d rats with some exceptions among group c rats when compared to the control. the histological alteration characterized by cellular degeneration, oxidative damage, inflammation, and tissue necrosis further affirmed the synergistic impacts with indications of gastritis, retinal dysfunction, and ocular impairment in predisposed rats.	1.0
36880454	Human biomonitoring of low-level benzene exposures.	Historically, benzene has been widely used in a large variety of applications. Occupational exposure limits (OELs) were set for benzene as it was found to be acutely toxic, causing central nervous system depression at high exposures. OELs were lowered when it was discovered that chronic exposure to benzene could cause haematotoxicity. After confirmation that benzene is a human carcinogen causing acute myeloid leukaemia and possibly other blood malignancies, OEL were further lowered. The industrial application of benzene as solvent is almost completely discontinued but it is still used as feedstock for the production of other materials, such as styrene. Occupational exposure to benzene may also occur since it is present in crude oil, natural gas condensate and a variety of petroleum products and because benzene can be formed in combustion of organic material. In the past few years, lower OELs for benzene in the range of 0.05-0.25 ppm have been proposed or were already established to protect workers from benzene-induced cancer. The skin is an important potential route of exposure and relatively more important at lower OELs. Consequently, human biomonitoring - which integrates all exposure routes - is routinely applied to control overall exposure to benzene. Several potential biomarkers have been proposed and investigated. For compliance check of the current low OELs, urinary S-phenylmercapturic acid (S-PMA), urinary benzene and blood benzene are feasible biomarkers. S-PMA appears to be the most promising biomarker but proper validation of biomarker levels corresponding to airborne benzene concentrations below 0.25 ppm are needed.	0	control	human biomonitoring of low-level benzene exposures.	historically, benzene has been widely used in a large variety of applications. occupational exposure limits (oels) were set for benzene as it was found to be acutely toxic, causing central nervous system depression at high exposures. oels were lowered when it was discovered that chronic exposure to benzene could cause haematotoxicity. after confirmation that benzene is a human carcinogen causing acute myeloid leukaemia and possibly other blood malignancies, oel were further lowered. the industrial application of benzene as solvent is almost completely discontinued but it is still used as feedstock for the production of other materials, such as styrene. occupational exposure to benzene may also occur since it is present in crude oil, natural gas condensate and a variety of petroleum products and because benzene can be formed in combustion of organic material. in the past few years, lower oels for benzene in the range of 0.05-0.25 ppm have been proposed or were already established to protect workers from benzene-induced cancer. the skin is an important potential route of exposure and relatively more important at lower oels. consequently, human biomonitoring - which integrates all exposure routes - is routinely applied to control overall exposure to benzene. several potential biomarkers have been proposed and investigated. for compliance check of the current low oels, urinary s-phenylmercapturic acid (s-pma), urinary benzene and blood benzene are feasible biomarkers. s-pma appears to be the most promising biomarker but proper validation of biomarker levels corresponding to airborne benzene concentrations below 0.25 ppm are needed.	1.0
40202703	Theoretical and Experimental Analysis of 3-(4-{9-[4-(3, 4-Dicyanophenoxy) Phenyl]-9 h-Fluoren-9 Yl} Phenoxy) Phthalonitrile Interactions with Cobalt and Nickel Chlorides.	This study provides a comprehensive theoretical and experimental analysis of the interactions between 3-(4-{9-[4-(3, 4-dicyanophenoxy) phenyl]-9 H-fluoren-9-yl}phenoxy)phthalonitrile and metal chlorides, focusing specifically on nickel chloride (NiCl₂) and cobalt chloride (CoCl₂). Combining Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations with various spectroscopic techniques and electrochemical methods, the research explores the binding mechanisms and the electronic changes induced by the metal chlorides. DFT calculations, using the B3LYP functional and a 6-31G basis set for ground-state optimization, revealed significant modifications in the HOMO-LUMO energy gap upon coordination with the metal chlorides, indicating notable shifts in the compound's electronic properties. Experimental data from UV-visible and fluorescence spectroscopy confirmed the formation of metal-ligand complexes, with observed shifts in absorption and emission spectra that corresponded with theoretical predictions. Further electrochemical insights were obtained through cyclic voltammetry, demonstrating an enhanced electron transfer process due to the metal ion interactions. These findings highlight how the inclusion of NiCl₂ and CoCl₂ significantly influences the electronic and optical characteristics of the phthalonitrile compound, suggesting their potential applications in optoelectronic devices and catalytic systems. This multidisciplinary approach provides a deeper understanding of metal-organic interactions and emphasizes the compound's promise in material science applications.	0	control	theoretical and experimental analysis of 3-(4-{9-[4-(3, 4-dicyanophenoxy) phenyl]-9 h-fluoren-9 yl} phenoxy) phthalonitrile interactions with cobalt and nickel chlorides.	this study provides a comprehensive theoretical and experimental analysis of the interactions between 3-(4-{9-[4-(3, 4-dicyanophenoxy) phenyl]-9 h-fluoren-9-yl}phenoxy)phthalonitrile and metal chlorides, focusing specifically on nickel chloride (nicl₂) and cobalt chloride (cocl₂). combining density functional theory (dft) calculations with various spectroscopic techniques and electrochemical methods, the research explores the binding mechanisms and the electronic changes induced by the metal chlorides. dft calculations, using the b3lyp functional and a 6-31g basis set for ground-state optimization, revealed significant modifications in the homo-lumo energy gap upon coordination with the metal chlorides, indicating notable shifts in the compound's electronic properties. experimental data from uv-visible and fluorescence spectroscopy confirmed the formation of metal-ligand complexes, with observed shifts in absorption and emission spectra that corresponded with theoretical predictions. further electrochemical insights were obtained through cyclic voltammetry, demonstrating an enhanced electron transfer process due to the metal ion interactions. these findings highlight how the inclusion of nicl₂ and cocl₂ significantly influences the electronic and optical characteristics of the phthalonitrile compound, suggesting their potential applications in optoelectronic devices and catalytic systems. this multidisciplinary approach provides a deeper understanding of metal-organic interactions and emphasizes the compound's promise in material science applications.	1.0
40023791	Upcycling of Livestock Industry Blood Waste into Bioplastics: Plasma Protein-Based Amyloid Fibrils.	This study presents a novel approach to harnessing the underutilized resource of livestock blood plasma proteins to produce bioplastic films based on amyloid fibrils. Upon acidic heating, a 20-h incubation period resulted in mature, semiflexible fibrils with an average length of 0.65 μm and a persistence length of 261 nm. Characterization using Thioflavin T intensity, circular dichroism, and FTIR spectroscopy revealed a cross-β-sheet structure stabilized by hydrogen bonding. The integration of plasma protein amyloid fibrils with poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) or methyl cellulose (MC) yielded bioplastic films that exhibit smooth and homogeneous micromorphology, enhanced toughness, and water stability, with PVA-based films demonstrating an exceptional elongation of ∼300%, suitable for food packaging applications. Compared to petroleum-based plastics, plasma amyloid fibril-incorporated films demonstrated a superior sustainability footprint (∼92%). This work underscores the potential of plasma protein amyloid fibrils in bioplastic applications, aligning with the global imperative for eco-friendly waste management and a circular economy.	0	control	upcycling of livestock industry blood waste into bioplastics: plasma protein-based amyloid fibrils.	this study presents a novel approach to harnessing the underutilized resource of livestock blood plasma proteins to produce bioplastic films based on amyloid fibrils. upon acidic heating, a 20-h incubation period resulted in mature, semiflexible fibrils with an average length of 0.65 μm and a persistence length of 261 nm. characterization using thioflavin t intensity, circular dichroism, and ftir spectroscopy revealed a cross-β-sheet structure stabilized by hydrogen bonding. the integration of plasma protein amyloid fibrils with poly(vinyl alcohol) (pva) or methyl cellulose (mc) yielded bioplastic films that exhibit smooth and homogeneous micromorphology, enhanced toughness, and water stability, with pva-based films demonstrating an exceptional elongation of ∼300%, suitable for food packaging applications. compared to petroleum-based plastics, plasma amyloid fibril-incorporated films demonstrated a superior sustainability footprint (∼92%). this work underscores the potential of plasma protein amyloid fibrils in bioplastic applications, aligning with the global imperative for eco-friendly waste management and a circular economy.	1.0
40229494	Mechanisms, challenges, and future perspectives of adsorptive desulfurization using zeolite-based adsorbents: a review.	This review is a comprehensive description of adsorptive desulfurization (ADS) by metal-modified zeolites, particularly the elimination of sulfur compounds from gasoline, diesel, kerosene, jet fuel, and heavy petroleum fuel. The seven largest zeolite structures (HEU, Composite, MWW, FAU, MFI, LTA, and BEA) were modified with metals such as copper, cerium, nickel, vanadium, zinc, and titanium and compared under different working conditions. It is determined by the results that CuCeY and modified CeY removed sulfur by 88.4% with an adsorption capacity of 4.49 mg S/g in model gasoline (thiophene, 500 ppm). CuHUSY and LaHUSY in model jet fuel (benzothiophene, 500 ppm) were removed by 83.9% and adsorbed by 7.16 mg S/g. For diesel fuel (dibenzothiophene, 500 ppm), LaNaY and CuNaY registered sulfur removal capacities of up to 99.9% and adsorption capacity of 24.6 mg S/g. Moreover, nickel, zinc, and tungsten-containing zeolites registered maximum removal capacities of up to 99% in heavy petroleum and model fuels like iso-octane and hexadecane, even under reduced contact times at room temperatures. In kerosene, Cu and TiO₂-modified clinoptilolite zeolites adsorbed 45-99.9% of sulfur based on the process conditions. This study also provides information on the regeneration of zeolites, the possibility of coupling modified zeolites with oxidants and solvents in the production of low-impact clean fuels, and mechanistic insights by Langmuir and Freundlich isotherms and pseudo-second-order kinetics. This study's findings help develop greener ways for fuel production processes.	0	control	mechanisms, challenges, and future perspectives of adsorptive desulfurization using zeolite-based adsorbents: a review.	this review is a comprehensive description of adsorptive desulfurization (ads) by metal-modified zeolites, particularly the elimination of sulfur compounds from gasoline, diesel, kerosene, jet fuel, and heavy petroleum fuel. the seven largest zeolite structures (heu, composite, mww, fau, mfi, lta, and bea) were modified with metals such as copper, cerium, nickel, vanadium, zinc, and titanium and compared under different working conditions. it is determined by the results that cucey and modified cey removed sulfur by 88.4% with an adsorption capacity of 4.49 mg s/g in model gasoline (thiophene, 500 ppm). cuhusy and lahusy in model jet fuel (benzothiophene, 500 ppm) were removed by 83.9% and adsorbed by 7.16 mg s/g. for diesel fuel (dibenzothiophene, 500 ppm), lanay and cunay registered sulfur removal capacities of up to 99.9% and adsorption capacity of 24.6 mg s/g. moreover, nickel, zinc, and tungsten-containing zeolites registered maximum removal capacities of up to 99% in heavy petroleum and model fuels like iso-octane and hexadecane, even under reduced contact times at room temperatures. in kerosene, cu and tio₂-modified clinoptilolite zeolites adsorbed 45-99.9% of sulfur based on the process conditions. this study also provides information on the regeneration of zeolites, the possibility of coupling modified zeolites with oxidants and solvents in the production of low-impact clean fuels, and mechanistic insights by langmuir and freundlich isotherms and pseudo-second-order kinetics. this study's findings help develop greener ways for fuel production processes.	1.0
40045685	Thelazia callipaeda (Nematoda: Spirurida) infections in 2 wildlife species, Prionailurus bengalensis and Nyctereutes procyonoides, in Korea.	Thelazia callipaeda (Spirurida, Thelaziidae), a parasitic eye worm causing thelaziasis has been reported in humans and dogs in Korea. However, its occurrence in other potential reservoir hosts, including wild animals, remains unclear. In the present study, we described the 2 cases of thelaziasis from both of feral and captive wild animal in Korea. In August and November 2017, 2 cases of the parasitic infections were found in the third eyelid of rescued leopard cat Prionailurus bengalensis and reared raccoon dog Nyctereutes procyonoides at the Chungnam Wild Animal Rescue Center. A total of 20 and 24 worms were detected from the left and right eyes of leopard cat, respectively. In the left eye of the raccoon dog, 5 worms were recognized. Male worms were 969-11,860 μm long (10,600 μm on average) and 300-320 μm width (315 μm on average). Female worms were 13,430-15,330 (14,480) μm long and 320-370 (344) μm wide in size. They commonly had a characteristic scalariform buccal cavity and short esophagus. The vulva openings were located at the anterior of esophago-intestinal junction in females. The thelaziasis is reported in 2 species of wildlife, P. bengalensis and N. procyonoides, for the first time in Korea.	0	control	thelazia callipaeda (nematoda: spirurida) infections in 2 wildlife species, prionailurus bengalensis and nyctereutes procyonoides, in korea.	thelazia callipaeda (spirurida, thelaziidae), a parasitic eye worm causing thelaziasis has been reported in humans and dogs in korea. however, its occurrence in other potential reservoir hosts, including wild animals, remains unclear. in the present study, we described the 2 cases of thelaziasis from both of feral and captive wild animal in korea. in august and november 2017, 2 cases of the parasitic infections were found in the third eyelid of rescued leopard cat prionailurus bengalensis and reared raccoon dog nyctereutes procyonoides at the chungnam wild animal rescue center. a total of 20 and 24 worms were detected from the left and right eyes of leopard cat, respectively. in the left eye of the raccoon dog, 5 worms were recognized. male worms were 969-11,860 μm long (10,600 μm on average) and 300-320 μm width (315 μm on average). female worms were 13,430-15,330 (14,480) μm long and 320-370 (344) μm wide in size. they commonly had a characteristic scalariform buccal cavity and short esophagus. the vulva openings were located at the anterior of esophago-intestinal junction in females. the thelaziasis is reported in 2 species of wildlife, p. bengalensis and n. procyonoides, for the first time in korea.	1.0
40162810	Inoculum growth impacts <i>Salmonella</i> and Shiga-toxin producing <i>Escherichia coli</i> resilience on wheat grain.	"Previous studies have shown that using a surface growth method for preparing inoculum impacted pathogen population stability and inactivation kinetics. Here, we quantified the desiccation survival and responses to tempering treatment of <i>Salmonella</i> and Shiga-toxin producing <i>Escherichia coli</i> (STEC) on wheat grain when grown using five different methods: broth, lawn-aerobic, lawn-anaerobic, lawn-acid-adapted, and lawn-low inoculum. Three strains of <i>Salmonella</i> and STEC each were individually inoculated onto wheat grain, conditioned to 0.45 <i>a</i><sub>w</sub> and stored up to 24 weeks. Pathogen survival curves on grain were different when inoculated with a lawn-grown culture compared to broth-grown. Acid adaptation of STEC led to increased (<i>P</i> < 0.001) tolerance to desiccation, while no change in <i>Salmonella</i> desiccation tolerance was observed. While most survival curves were better described by the log-linear model, survival of pathogens from broth-grown inoculum was better characterized by the Weibull model. Five-strain cocktails of each species were inoculated onto wheat, stored for 1, 2, 7, 28, and 84 days, followed by tempering for 18 h with three chemical interventions: water (control), 800 ppm chlorine, 5% lactic acid (LA) + 26.6% NaCl and 5% sodium bisulfate (SBS). These treatments led to different (<i>P</i> < 0.001) average reductions of 0.52, 1.04, 1.43, and 1.96 log CFU/g, respectively. The length of storage and inoculum growth method affected (<i>P</i> < 0.001) pathogen survival during tempering. In general, pathogens inoculated on grain survived better during tempering when inoculum was prepared by acid-adapted ≥ lawn-aerobic ≥ low inoculum > lawn-anaerobic = broth.IMPORTANCEOutbreaks linked to wheat flour increased interest in evaluating pathogen survival kinetics. With minimal information on how foodborne pathogens contaminate wheat grain, the ""worst-case scenario"" should be identified to characterize pathogen survival kinetics on grain and be used to assess the effectiveness of food safety interventions. Using an antimicrobial solution during wheat tempering, an existing unit operation where grain is exposed to water prior to milling into flour can be a cost-effective way to mitigate the risk of foodborne pathogens. The lack of consistent inoculum preparation methods makes it difficult to compare results across studies evaluating tempering treatments. We assessed five different inoculum growth methods to quantify pathogen survival during desiccation and long-term storage and pathogen inactivation efficacy of several existing tempering solutions. In addition, these data provide insights on statistically important parameters to consider for low-moisture food challenge study experimental design, such as inoculum growth, inoculation level, and pathogen adaptation."	0	control	inoculum growth impacts <i>salmonella</i> and shiga-toxin producing <i>escherichia coli</i> resilience on wheat grain.	"previous studies have shown that using a surface growth method for preparing inoculum impacted pathogen population stability and inactivation kinetics. here, we quantified the desiccation survival and responses to tempering treatment of <i>salmonella</i> and shiga-toxin producing <i>escherichia coli</i> (stec) on wheat grain when grown using five different methods: broth, lawn-aerobic, lawn-anaerobic, lawn-acid-adapted, and lawn-low inoculum. three strains of <i>salmonella</i> and stec each were individually inoculated onto wheat grain, conditioned to 0.45 <i>a</i><sub>w</sub> and stored up to 24 weeks. pathogen survival curves on grain were different when inoculated with a lawn-grown culture compared to broth-grown. acid adaptation of stec led to increased (<i>p</i> < 0.001) tolerance to desiccation, while no change in <i>salmonella</i> desiccation tolerance was observed. while most survival curves were better described by the log-linear model, survival of pathogens from broth-grown inoculum was better characterized by the weibull model. five-strain cocktails of each species were inoculated onto wheat, stored for 1, 2, 7, 28, and 84 days, followed by tempering for 18 h with three chemical interventions: water (control), 800 ppm chlorine, 5% lactic acid (la) + 26.6% nacl and 5% sodium bisulfate (sbs). these treatments led to different (<i>p</i> < 0.001) average reductions of 0.52, 1.04, 1.43, and 1.96 log cfu/g, respectively. the length of storage and inoculum growth method affected (<i>p</i> < 0.001) pathogen survival during tempering. in general, pathogens inoculated on grain survived better during tempering when inoculum was prepared by acid-adapted ≥ lawn-aerobic ≥ low inoculum > lawn-anaerobic = broth.importanceoutbreaks linked to wheat flour increased interest in evaluating pathogen survival kinetics. with minimal information on how foodborne pathogens contaminate wheat grain, the ""worst-case scenario"" should be identified to characterize pathogen survival kinetics on grain and be used to assess the effectiveness of food safety interventions. using an antimicrobial solution during wheat tempering, an existing unit operation where grain is exposed to water prior to milling into flour can be a cost-effective way to mitigate the risk of foodborne pathogens. the lack of consistent inoculum preparation methods makes it difficult to compare results across studies evaluating tempering treatments. we assessed five different inoculum growth methods to quantify pathogen survival during desiccation and long-term storage and pathogen inactivation efficacy of several existing tempering solutions. in addition, these data provide insights on statistically important parameters to consider for low-moisture food challenge study experimental design, such as inoculum growth, inoculation level, and pathogen adaptation."	1.0
40202144	Computing photodissociation cross sections and quasi-continuum properties of the NH radical.	Photodissociation cross sections of NH for 250 > λ > 100 nm are studied using (i) the recently reported spectroscopic model of the five lowest electronic states of NH, (ii) a new set of ab initio potential energy, (transition) dipole moment, spin-orbit, and electronic angular momentum curves covering the region up to 100 000 cm-1, and (iii) the recently suggested approach for time-independent calculations of continuum spectra of molecules (Pezzella et al., 2022). Quasi-dissociative properties, including predissociation lifetimes and linewidths, of the c1Π state are studied using four state-of-the-art predissociative methods: stabilization, Airy-boundary conditions within the WKB approximation, phase-amplitude, and complex-scaling approaches. The methodologies developed and tested in this work will be used to produce photoabsorption and photodissociation spectra of NH and other diatomic species as part of the ExoMol database (Q.-H. Ni et al., 2025) at www.exomol.com.	0	control	computing photodissociation cross sections and quasi-continuum properties of the nh radical.	photodissociation cross sections of nh for 250 > λ > 100 nm are studied using (i) the recently reported spectroscopic model of the five lowest electronic states of nh, (ii) a new set of ab initio potential energy, (transition) dipole moment, spin-orbit, and electronic angular momentum curves covering the region up to 100 000 cm-1, and (iii) the recently suggested approach for time-independent calculations of continuum spectra of molecules (pezzella et al., 2022). quasi-dissociative properties, including predissociation lifetimes and linewidths, of the c1π state are studied using four state-of-the-art predissociative methods: stabilization, airy-boundary conditions within the wkb approximation, phase-amplitude, and complex-scaling approaches. the methodologies developed and tested in this work will be used to produce photoabsorption and photodissociation spectra of nh and other diatomic species as part of the exomol database (q.-h. ni et al., 2025) at www.exomol.com.	1.0
39154268	Preliminary studies on the effect of excretory secretory (ES) Ascaris lumbricoides antigens on colorectal cell line viability.	Helminth parasites are a group of complex metazoans from various taxonomic families. Excretory secretory (ES) by-products, secreted by living parasites from the surface, appeared to modulate the host immunological response towards helminth infection. This study aims to investigate the effect of ES antigen from helminth parasite on colorectal cell viability. Worm were cultured in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS x1) at 37°C for 24 hours after being rinsed in sterile PBS. Using a mortar and pestle, the worm was crushed vigorously using PBS. The obtained excretory secretory (ES) antigens were extracted and filtered using a 0.22 µM filter and stored at -20°C for further assay. For LCMS, 100 µl of the extract was analysed using Agilent ZORBAX Eclipse Plus C18 Rapid Resolution HT. The extraction of ES antigen (10 µg/ml and 20 µg/ml) was used for cell viability studies using CRC cell line HCT 116. Cell viability and MTT assay were conducted as per the protocol mentioned in the MTT kit. The liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry (LCMS) data indicated that the ES antigen contained metabolic compounds, namely fatty acid, amino alcohol, indoles, sterols, glycosides, and sphingoids. For the Ascaris lumbricoides LCMS analyses, around 405 metabolic peaks were detected. Out of which, 58 were detected via the database were identified, while several compounds detected have anticancer properties. The MTT assay indicated that after 24 hours and 48 hours of exposure, all treated cells showed a decrease in cell viability compared to the control group. The preliminary studies demonstrated that the ES antigen from Ascaris lumbricoides has some ability to decrease the cell viability of the HCT116 CRC cell line. Further studies are needed to examine the cell cycle arrest and apoptosis effect of the ES antigen towards the CRC cell line.	0	control	preliminary studies on the effect of excretory secretory (es) ascaris lumbricoides antigens on colorectal cell line viability.	helminth parasites are a group of complex metazoans from various taxonomic families. excretory secretory (es) by-products, secreted by living parasites from the surface, appeared to modulate the host immunological response towards helminth infection. this study aims to investigate the effect of es antigen from helminth parasite on colorectal cell viability. worm were cultured in phosphate-buffered saline (pbs x1) at 37°c for 24 hours after being rinsed in sterile pbs. using a mortar and pestle, the worm was crushed vigorously using pbs. the obtained excretory secretory (es) antigens were extracted and filtered using a 0.22 µm filter and stored at -20°c for further assay. for lcms, 100 µl of the extract was analysed using agilent zorbax eclipse plus c18 rapid resolution ht. the extraction of es antigen (10 µg/ml and 20 µg/ml) was used for cell viability studies using crc cell line hct 116. cell viability and mtt assay were conducted as per the protocol mentioned in the mtt kit. the liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry (lcms) data indicated that the es antigen contained metabolic compounds, namely fatty acid, amino alcohol, indoles, sterols, glycosides, and sphingoids. for the ascaris lumbricoides lcms analyses, around 405 metabolic peaks were detected. out of which, 58 were detected via the database were identified, while several compounds detected have anticancer properties. the mtt assay indicated that after 24 hours and 48 hours of exposure, all treated cells showed a decrease in cell viability compared to the control group. the preliminary studies demonstrated that the es antigen from ascaris lumbricoides has some ability to decrease the cell viability of the hct116 crc cell line. further studies are needed to examine the cell cycle arrest and apoptosis effect of the es antigen towards the crc cell line.	1.0
40151741	Anaphylaxis to Banana and Persistent Sensitization to Thaumatin-Like Protein: An Emergent Culprit.	Bananas contain different allergens, and reactions vary in severity. Thaumatin-like proteins (TLPs) present high stability during digestion and heat treatment. Data regarding reaction severity and acquisition of tolerance are lacking. A two-year-old child presented with anaphylaxis after eating a banana. He was treated with corticosteroids and antihistamines on the way to the emergency department (ED) by his mother. Adrenaline was not administered as he had already improved upon arriving at the ED. The child had tolerated all fruits introduced into his diet, including bananas. He had never eaten kiwi. Skin prick tests (SPT) were positive for banana and kiwi and negative for aeroallergens, lipid transfer proteins, profilin, and latex. Skin prick-to-prick test (SPPT) with banana was positive. The specific IgE for bananas was 2.85 kUA/L. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) immunoblotting with banana extracts and the patient's serum showed an IgE-binding band compatible with Mus a 4 (banana TLP). Eviction of kiwis and bananas was recommended. At the age of six, the child presented with rhinoconjunctivitis during spring. SPT was positive for grass pollen and positive for banana and kiwi. The ImmunoCAP Immuno-Solid Phase Allergy Chip (ISAC®) test (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Uppsala, Sweden) demonstrated positive IgE against nAct d 2 (kiwi TLP), rPhl p 1, rPhl p 5, and rPhl p 11. Banana and kiwi eviction was maintained. Oral provocation was not performed. At the age of nine, the child started immunotherapy for grass pollen. Banana and kiwi SPPT remained positive. This case illustrates the atopic march, with banana as the culprit food and TLP as the potential sensitizer. nAct d 2 is homologous to Mus a 4, which is not available in ISAC®. We highlight the severity of the reaction and the persistence of sensitization.	0	control	anaphylaxis to banana and persistent sensitization to thaumatin-like protein: an emergent culprit.	bananas contain different allergens, and reactions vary in severity. thaumatin-like proteins (tlps) present high stability during digestion and heat treatment. data regarding reaction severity and acquisition of tolerance are lacking. a two-year-old child presented with anaphylaxis after eating a banana. he was treated with corticosteroids and antihistamines on the way to the emergency department (ed) by his mother. adrenaline was not administered as he had already improved upon arriving at the ed. the child had tolerated all fruits introduced into his diet, including bananas. he had never eaten kiwi. skin prick tests (spt) were positive for banana and kiwi and negative for aeroallergens, lipid transfer proteins, profilin, and latex. skin prick-to-prick test (sppt) with banana was positive. the specific ige for bananas was 2.85 kua/l. sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (sds-page) immunoblotting with banana extracts and the patient's serum showed an ige-binding band compatible with mus a 4 (banana tlp). eviction of kiwis and bananas was recommended. at the age of six, the child presented with rhinoconjunctivitis during spring. spt was positive for grass pollen and positive for banana and kiwi. the immunocap immuno-solid phase allergy chip (isac®) test (thermo fisher scientific, uppsala, sweden) demonstrated positive ige against nact d 2 (kiwi tlp), rphl p 1, rphl p 5, and rphl p 11. banana and kiwi eviction was maintained. oral provocation was not performed. at the age of nine, the child started immunotherapy for grass pollen. banana and kiwi sppt remained positive. this case illustrates the atopic march, with banana as the culprit food and tlp as the potential sensitizer. nact d 2 is homologous to mus a 4, which is not available in isac®. we highlight the severity of the reaction and the persistence of sensitization.	1.0
40123869	Sensomics combined with Chemometrics approaches of enzymatically hydrolyzed animal by-product proteins using biomimetic sensory-based machine perception techniques and gas chromatography-Olfactometry-mass spectrometry (GC-O-MS).	In this study, pig blood (PB), milk whey (MW), cow gelatin (CG), and pig gelatin (PG) were used to investigate the flavor profiles of hydrolyzed animal byproduct proteins using biomimetic sensory-based machine perception techniques and gas chromatography-olfactometry-mass spectrometry (GC-O-MS). In addition, this study aimed to explore their potential application in the food industry as a food source. In taste patterns and volatile compounds, PB hydrolyzed with pepsin exhibited the most pronounced umami taste and a glassy odor similar to green and almond. However, PB hydrolyzed with alcalase did not exhibit this distinctive characteristic. In addition, the chemometrics approaches of flavor compounds showed that taste patterns and volatile compounds were influenced by the types of substrate, regardless of the utilization of enzyme types. This study provides flavor profiles of hydrolysis by-product proteins (prototypes) that can be used as a basic database for sensomics combined with chemometrics.	0	control	sensomics combined with chemometrics approaches of enzymatically hydrolyzed animal by-product proteins using biomimetic sensory-based machine perception techniques and gas chromatography-olfactometry-mass spectrometry (gc-o-ms).	in this study, pig blood (pb), milk whey (mw), cow gelatin (cg), and pig gelatin (pg) were used to investigate the flavor profiles of hydrolyzed animal byproduct proteins using biomimetic sensory-based machine perception techniques and gas chromatography-olfactometry-mass spectrometry (gc-o-ms). in addition, this study aimed to explore their potential application in the food industry as a food source. in taste patterns and volatile compounds, pb hydrolyzed with pepsin exhibited the most pronounced umami taste and a glassy odor similar to green and almond. however, pb hydrolyzed with alcalase did not exhibit this distinctive characteristic. in addition, the chemometrics approaches of flavor compounds showed that taste patterns and volatile compounds were influenced by the types of substrate, regardless of the utilization of enzyme types. this study provides flavor profiles of hydrolysis by-product proteins (prototypes) that can be used as a basic database for sensomics combined with chemometrics.	1.0
39479302	Bioactive compounds isolated from the bark of <i>Aesculus glabra</i> Willd.	The <i>Aesculus</i> genus has several species, most notably <i>Aesculus hippocastanum</i>, with reported cytotoxic and venotonic effects. The angiogenic effect from <i>A. hippocastanum</i> is of interest given the current limitations of anti-angiogenic therapeutics. <i>Aesculus glabra</i> (Willdenow), known as the Ohio Buckeye Tree is a species native to North America with reported medicinal use by the Native Americans. Previous phytochemical studies have focused on the seed and leaf contents of the <i>glabra</i> species, with most of them reporting cytotoxic activity. In this study, we assessed preliminary anti-angiogenic activity and toxicity of isolated compounds from the bark of <i>A. glabra</i> utilizing a zebrafish (<i>Danio rerio</i>) model. Procyanidin A2 and epicatechin, two pure isolates, were tested using zebrafish and gave an anti-angiogenic response, suggesting an underlying mechanism involved in vascular development.	0	control	bioactive compounds isolated from the bark of <i>aesculus glabra</i> willd.	the <i>aesculus</i> genus has several species, most notably <i>aesculus hippocastanum</i>, with reported cytotoxic and venotonic effects. the angiogenic effect from <i>a. hippocastanum</i> is of interest given the current limitations of anti-angiogenic therapeutics. <i>aesculus glabra</i> (willdenow), known as the ohio buckeye tree is a species native to north america with reported medicinal use by the native americans. previous phytochemical studies have focused on the seed and leaf contents of the <i>glabra</i> species, with most of them reporting cytotoxic activity. in this study, we assessed preliminary anti-angiogenic activity and toxicity of isolated compounds from the bark of <i>a. glabra</i> utilizing a zebrafish (<i>danio rerio</i>) model. procyanidin a2 and epicatechin, two pure isolates, were tested using zebrafish and gave an anti-angiogenic response, suggesting an underlying mechanism involved in vascular development.	1.0
37903402	What's Eating You? Tropical Rat Mite (Ornithonyssus bacoti).	The tropical rat mite (Ornithonyssus bacoti) commonly infests wild and pet rodents, but they are not host specific. Bodily contact with wild or domesticated rodents is the most common source of infestation. Mites can live off many mammal hosts for a long period of time; therefore, living in quarters infested by mice can lead to mite exposure. Human infestation presents as urticarial, pruritic, cutaneous lesions that may be misdiagnosed as an arthropod bite, an infection, or contact dermatitis. Symptomatic relief of pruritus can be provided with a topical corticosteroid or antihistamine. The most effective treatment is an antiparasitic, such as permethrin cream, as well as extermination of rodents, mites, and any other pests in the patient's living space.	0	control	what's eating you? tropical rat mite (ornithonyssus bacoti).	the tropical rat mite (ornithonyssus bacoti) commonly infests wild and pet rodents, but they are not host specific. bodily contact with wild or domesticated rodents is the most common source of infestation. mites can live off many mammal hosts for a long period of time; therefore, living in quarters infested by mice can lead to mite exposure. human infestation presents as urticarial, pruritic, cutaneous lesions that may be misdiagnosed as an arthropod bite, an infection, or contact dermatitis. symptomatic relief of pruritus can be provided with a topical corticosteroid or antihistamine. the most effective treatment is an antiparasitic, such as permethrin cream, as well as extermination of rodents, mites, and any other pests in the patient's living space.	1.0
36540451	Inhaled Organophosphorus Poisoning Presenting as Superior Laryngeal Nerve Palsy: A Rare Case.	Poisoning by organophosphorus (OP) is a major clinical issue affecting many nations worldwide, especially developing nations. In this case report, we have highlighted organophosphate poisoning syndrome that resulted in paralysis of the vocal cords. A 28-year-old male patient with a history of accidental inhalation of the OP compound reported to our hospital with symptoms of vomiting and hoarseness of voice. He had nasal regurgitation and hoarseness having both 9th and 10th cranial nerve palsies on admission, which improved after administration of atropine.	0	control	inhaled organophosphorus poisoning presenting as superior laryngeal nerve palsy: a rare case.	poisoning by organophosphorus (op) is a major clinical issue affecting many nations worldwide, especially developing nations. in this case report, we have highlighted organophosphate poisoning syndrome that resulted in paralysis of the vocal cords. a 28-year-old male patient with a history of accidental inhalation of the op compound reported to our hospital with symptoms of vomiting and hoarseness of voice. he had nasal regurgitation and hoarseness having both 9th and 10th cranial nerve palsies on admission, which improved after administration of atropine.	1.0
39041087	[Chemical constituents from Cinnamomi Ramulus decoction].	Six compounds were isolated from the ethyl acetate extracts of Cinnamomi Ramulus decoction by RP-18, silica gel, Sephadex LH-20 column chromatography, together with prep-HPLC methods. Based on HR-ESI-MS, MS, 1D and 2D NMR spectral analyses, the structures of the six compounds were identified as 4,5,10,11-tetrahydroxybisabol-7-ene(1), 4,5,10,11-tetrahydroxybisabolin(2), 1-phenyl-1,2,3-glycerol(3),(+)-lyoniresinol(4), benzoic acid(5), and decumbic acid(6). Compound 1 was a new bisabolene-type sesquiterpene, and compounds 2 and 3 were isolated from the Cinnamomi Ramulus for the first time. Moreover, the bisabolene-type sesquiterpene(2) was assayed for its anti-inflammatory activity and cytotoxicity to human pancreatic cancer cells(PANC-1 cells). RESULTS:: showed that compound 2 exhibited an inhibitory rate of 32.9% on nitric oxide(NO) at a dose of 40 μmol·L~(-1) and a proliferation inhibition rate of 14.5% against PANC-1 cells at a dose of 20 μmol·L~(-1). It did not demonstrate significant activity.	0	control	[chemical constituents from cinnamomi ramulus decoction].	six compounds were isolated from the ethyl acetate extracts of cinnamomi ramulus decoction by rp-18, silica gel, sephadex lh-20 column chromatography, together with prep-hplc methods. based on hr-esi-ms, ms, 1d and 2d nmr spectral analyses, the structures of the six compounds were identified as 4,5,10,11-tetrahydroxybisabol-7-ene(1), 4,5,10,11-tetrahydroxybisabolin(2), 1-phenyl-1,2,3-glycerol(3),(+)-lyoniresinol(4), benzoic acid(5), and decumbic acid(6). compound 1 was a new bisabolene-type sesquiterpene, and compounds 2 and 3 were isolated from the cinnamomi ramulus for the first time. moreover, the bisabolene-type sesquiterpene(2) was assayed for its anti-inflammatory activity and cytotoxicity to human pancreatic cancer cells(panc-1 cells). results:: showed that compound 2 exhibited an inhibitory rate of 32.9% on nitric oxide(no) at a dose of 40 μmol·l~(-1) and a proliferation inhibition rate of 14.5% against panc-1 cells at a dose of 20 μmol·l~(-1). it did not demonstrate significant activity.	1.0
40265279	Evaluation of Tricaine Methanesulfonate Concentrations for Flow Anesthesia in Zebrafish (<i>Danio rerio</i>).	Zebrafish (<i>Danio rerio</i>) are often anesthetized by immersion in buffered tricaine methanesulfonate (MS-222). Although commonly utilized, immersion anesthesia presents a shortcoming of lethal asphyxiation with increased duration of exposures. A newer technique that circumvents this issue, known as flow anesthesia, has been adapted from larger aquatic species to zebrafish. Flow anesthesia improves safety by delivering oxygen-rich water along with the anesthetic across gill epithelium and allowing fish to be manipulated outside of water. Information on the construction of flow anesthesia apparatuses and parameters are sparse. The goal of this study was to create a flow anesthesia apparatus with materials commonly found within a research facility and to evaluate variable concentrations of MS-222 for anesthesia in zebrafish. Depth of anesthesia was monitored by quantifying respiratory rate and recording responses to physical stimulation. All concentrations of MS-222 evaluated (30-100 ppm) were successful at maintaining surgical anesthesia for up to 30 min. The anesthetic events were demonstrated to be safe, with an observed 97% survival rate. This work demonstrates refinements in zebrafish anesthesia and encourages future studies to evaluate MS-222 flow anesthesia for longer duration and evaluation of other commercially available anesthetics for efficacy in a flow anesthesia setup.	0	control	evaluation of tricaine methanesulfonate concentrations for flow anesthesia in zebrafish (<i>danio rerio</i>).	zebrafish (<i>danio rerio</i>) are often anesthetized by immersion in buffered tricaine methanesulfonate (ms-222). although commonly utilized, immersion anesthesia presents a shortcoming of lethal asphyxiation with increased duration of exposures. a newer technique that circumvents this issue, known as flow anesthesia, has been adapted from larger aquatic species to zebrafish. flow anesthesia improves safety by delivering oxygen-rich water along with the anesthetic across gill epithelium and allowing fish to be manipulated outside of water. information on the construction of flow anesthesia apparatuses and parameters are sparse. the goal of this study was to create a flow anesthesia apparatus with materials commonly found within a research facility and to evaluate variable concentrations of ms-222 for anesthesia in zebrafish. depth of anesthesia was monitored by quantifying respiratory rate and recording responses to physical stimulation. all concentrations of ms-222 evaluated (30-100 ppm) were successful at maintaining surgical anesthesia for up to 30 min. the anesthetic events were demonstrated to be safe, with an observed 97% survival rate. this work demonstrates refinements in zebrafish anesthesia and encourages future studies to evaluate ms-222 flow anesthesia for longer duration and evaluation of other commercially available anesthetics for efficacy in a flow anesthesia setup.	1.0
37934589	Lateral Wedging of the Foot: A Scoping Review.	Lateral wedges are a common intervention used to alter biomechanical function of the lower limb. Although there is evidence investigating the use and impact of lateral wedges in individuals with medial knee osteoarthritis, knowledge of how these wedges affect foot function in healthy adults is limited. Therefore, this study intends to investigate how lateral wedging affects foot function in healthy adults and, furthermore, how wedge design influences the outcome. The framework outlined by Arksey and O'Malley was used for this scoping review. To ensure methodologic quality and transparent reporting, the study adheres to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses Extension for Scoping Reviews preferred reporting guidelines. A systematic search was conducted using MEDLINE by means of EBSCO; SPORT Discuss; CINAHL; AMED by means of OVID; and Scopus. The initial search yielded 252 articles in total; 21 studies were included in the final analysis. Significant incongruence exists in descriptions of wedge length among the 21 included studies. Thirteen studies (61%) reported using full-length wedges, five studies did not report wedge length, and only one study analyzed more than one wedge length. Ethylene vinyl acetate was the most common material, and reporting of hardness was inconsistent. A broad range of inclination angles were used, with limited explanation for why these values were selected. All but one study that analyzed ankle/subtalar joint frontal plane moments reported an increase in the external eversion moment. The review identified significant variation in the design of wedges used within this body of work and a lack of investigation into the influence of wedge design. Wedge design appears to be a secondary consideration, with very few studies examining multiple material types or wedge placements. All but one of the included studies reported a significant change in ankle/subtalar joint moments with lateral wedging. Unfortunately, further generalization was not possible because of the inconsistency and variation.	0	control	lateral wedging of the foot: a scoping review.	lateral wedges are a common intervention used to alter biomechanical function of the lower limb. although there is evidence investigating the use and impact of lateral wedges in individuals with medial knee osteoarthritis, knowledge of how these wedges affect foot function in healthy adults is limited. therefore, this study intends to investigate how lateral wedging affects foot function in healthy adults and, furthermore, how wedge design influences the outcome. the framework outlined by arksey and o'malley was used for this scoping review. to ensure methodologic quality and transparent reporting, the study adheres to the preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses extension for scoping reviews preferred reporting guidelines. a systematic search was conducted using medline by means of ebsco; sport discuss; cinahl; amed by means of ovid; and scopus. the initial search yielded 252 articles in total; 21 studies were included in the final analysis. significant incongruence exists in descriptions of wedge length among the 21 included studies. thirteen studies (61%) reported using full-length wedges, five studies did not report wedge length, and only one study analyzed more than one wedge length. ethylene vinyl acetate was the most common material, and reporting of hardness was inconsistent. a broad range of inclination angles were used, with limited explanation for why these values were selected. all but one study that analyzed ankle/subtalar joint frontal plane moments reported an increase in the external eversion moment. the review identified significant variation in the design of wedges used within this body of work and a lack of investigation into the influence of wedge design. wedge design appears to be a secondary consideration, with very few studies examining multiple material types or wedge placements. all but one of the included studies reported a significant change in ankle/subtalar joint moments with lateral wedging. unfortunately, further generalization was not possible because of the inconsistency and variation.	1.0
40198770	Plasma Clozapine in Treatment Refractory Schizophrenia: What Is the Target Range?	In treatment-refractory schizophrenia (TRS), a predose plasma concentration of 0.35 mg L-1 is suggested to ensure an adequate trial of clozapine, but the target range may differ between smokers and nonsmokers.	0	control	plasma clozapine in treatment refractory schizophrenia: what is the target range?	in treatment-refractory schizophrenia (trs), a predose plasma concentration of 0.35 mg l-1 is suggested to ensure an adequate trial of clozapine, but the target range may differ between smokers and nonsmokers.	1.0
40034978	Volatile and non-volatile compound analysis of ginkgo chicken soup during cooking using a combi oven.	This study employed a range of analytical techniques to evaluate the changes in both volatile and non-volatile compounds during different cooking times (30, 60, 90, 120, and 150 min) of ginkgo chicken soup prepared using a multifunctional combi oven, and comparedthese results with those obtained from the traditional ceramic pot method.The techniques included electronic nose (e-nose), electronic tongue (e-tongue), gas chromatography-ion mobility spectrometry (GC-IMS), high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS), and automated amino acid analysis. A total of 64 volatile compounds, primarily aldehydes, ketones, esters, and alcohols, were detected, with 23 key aroma components identified. Principal component analysis (PCA) demonstrated similar aroma and taste profiles between the two cooking methods. Additionally, 22 amino acids, 6 nucleotides enhancing umami, and 18 fatty acids were categorized into saturated, monounsaturated, and polyunsaturated groups. Pearson correlation revealed significant relationships among key amino acids, 5'-nucleotides, and volatile compounds, providing insights into industrial-scale applications of multifunctional ovens in ginkgo chicken soup production.	0	control	volatile and non-volatile compound analysis of ginkgo chicken soup during cooking using a combi oven.	this study employed a range of analytical techniques to evaluate the changes in both volatile and non-volatile compounds during different cooking times (30, 60, 90, 120, and 150 min) of ginkgo chicken soup prepared using a multifunctional combi oven, and comparedthese results with those obtained from the traditional ceramic pot method.the techniques included electronic nose (e-nose), electronic tongue (e-tongue), gas chromatography-ion mobility spectrometry (gc-ims), high-performance liquid chromatography (hplc), gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (gc-ms), and automated amino acid analysis. a total of 64 volatile compounds, primarily aldehydes, ketones, esters, and alcohols, were detected, with 23 key aroma components identified. principal component analysis (pca) demonstrated similar aroma and taste profiles between the two cooking methods. additionally, 22 amino acids, 6 nucleotides enhancing umami, and 18 fatty acids were categorized into saturated, monounsaturated, and polyunsaturated groups. pearson correlation revealed significant relationships among key amino acids, 5'-nucleotides, and volatile compounds, providing insights into industrial-scale applications of multifunctional ovens in ginkgo chicken soup production.	1.0
40226854	Palladium Complex Grafted on PEG-Based Amphiphilic Polymers as ppm Level Micellar Catalysts for Suzuki-Miyaura Coupling in Water.	A series of bisphosphine-grafted amphiphilic polymers based on polyethylene glycol-poly(vinylethylene glycol) (PEG-PVEG) copolymers have been synthesized by using allylic etherification polymerization as a pivotal step. Self-assembling of the palladium complexes of the obtained amphiphilic polymers into spherical micelles has been investigated by UV-vis, DLS and TEM analysis. The outstanding catalytic performance of the present micellar palladium catalyst has been evidenced in the aqueous Suzuki-Miyaura coupling reaction, achieving remarkable efficiency even at a low catalyst loading of 100 ppm within 2 h.	0	control	palladium complex grafted on peg-based amphiphilic polymers as ppm level micellar catalysts for suzuki-miyaura coupling in water.	a series of bisphosphine-grafted amphiphilic polymers based on polyethylene glycol-poly(vinylethylene glycol) (peg-pveg) copolymers have been synthesized by using allylic etherification polymerization as a pivotal step. self-assembling of the palladium complexes of the obtained amphiphilic polymers into spherical micelles has been investigated by uv-vis, dls and tem analysis. the outstanding catalytic performance of the present micellar palladium catalyst has been evidenced in the aqueous suzuki-miyaura coupling reaction, achieving remarkable efficiency even at a low catalyst loading of 100 ppm within 2 h.	1.0
40104613	Investigation of aromatic compounds and olfactory profiles in cocoa pulp fermentation using yeast-based starters: A Volatilomics and machine learning approach.	The interaction and complex metabolism of microorganisms in cocoa pulp drive the fermentation process. To investigate this, four strains from spontaneous cocoa fermentation, including <i>Hanseniaspora uvarum, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Lactiplantibacillus plantarum,</i> and <i>Gluconobacter potus</i> were combined to ferment cocoa pulp. Nineteen machine learning algorithms were run with the dataset of volatile compounds quantified by headspace solid-phase microextraction gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (HS-SPME-GC-MS) against integrated olfactory evaluation to reveal metabolite-sensory attribute relationships. The models showed high prediction accuracy, ranging from 0.85 for sourness by Gradient Boost Machine to 0.28 for sweetness by linear regression. Ethyl esters, specifically ethyl octanoate and ethyl 9-decenoate, were found positive for aroma development. Polynomial regression, neural network modeling and gradient boosting decision trees highlighted the high carbohydrate consumption rate of <i>S. cerevisiae</i>, the pectin degradation ability of <i>H. uvarum</i>, and the synergy of lactic acid bacteria with <i>G. potus</i>. This study offers new insights into cocoa flavor and the development of fermentation starter cocktails.	0	control	investigation of aromatic compounds and olfactory profiles in cocoa pulp fermentation using yeast-based starters: a volatilomics and machine learning approach.	the interaction and complex metabolism of microorganisms in cocoa pulp drive the fermentation process. to investigate this, four strains from spontaneous cocoa fermentation, including <i>hanseniaspora uvarum, saccharomyces cerevisiae, lactiplantibacillus plantarum,</i> and <i>gluconobacter potus</i> were combined to ferment cocoa pulp. nineteen machine learning algorithms were run with the dataset of volatile compounds quantified by headspace solid-phase microextraction gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (hs-spme-gc-ms) against integrated olfactory evaluation to reveal metabolite-sensory attribute relationships. the models showed high prediction accuracy, ranging from 0.85 for sourness by gradient boost machine to 0.28 for sweetness by linear regression. ethyl esters, specifically ethyl octanoate and ethyl 9-decenoate, were found positive for aroma development. polynomial regression, neural network modeling and gradient boosting decision trees highlighted the high carbohydrate consumption rate of <i>s. cerevisiae</i>, the pectin degradation ability of <i>h. uvarum</i>, and the synergy of lactic acid bacteria with <i>g. potus</i>. this study offers new insights into cocoa flavor and the development of fermentation starter cocktails.	1.0
39070444	Cesarean Section in a Group 1 Pulmonary Hypertension Parturient Patient: A Case Report.	Severe pulmonary hypertension (PH) during pregnancy poses considerable challenges due to the physiological changes and increased cardiovascular demands. Close multidisciplinary management is essential throughout the peripartum period. The critical steps taken to provide anesthesia safely and successfully for a planned cesarian section are outlined, with special care for communication between the cardiothoracic surgery and obstetric team. A 31-year-old G3P1112 (three pregnancies, one term delivery, one pre-term delivery, one abortion, with two living children) patient with a history of systemic lupus erythematosus complicated by Group 1 PH presented to the operating room for a planned 34-week cesarean section. Pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PASP) was noted to be 68 mmHg at this time. Intravenous (IV) treprostinil at 8 ng/kg/min through a tunneled right subclavian line was initiated in her third trimester, and a day before her cesarean section, she was admitted for a lumbar epidural catheter placement. In the operating room, IV treprostinil was continued and a high-flow nasal cannula with inhaled nitric oxide at 20 ppm was initiated. A right internal jugular vein pulmonary artery catheter was placed for close monitoring of her pulmonary artery pressures, with a PASP reading of 64 mmHg at the start of the case. Femoral arterial and venous access was placed by the cardiothoracic surgery team for cardiopulmonary bypass standby. Intra-operative surgical analgesia was achieved by epidural lidocaine. A cesarean section was performed and was uncomplicated despite her post-delivery autotransfusion, where her PASP went as high as 89 mmHg. Uterine atony was managed with an oxytocin infusion. Epidural morphine was administered through the epidural catheter for post-operative analgesia. In the post-operative recovery room, her PASP was back down to baseline at 62 mmHg. The patient proceeded to have an uneventful postpartum hospital stay and was discharged home without any complications. While severe PH poses a challenge in the care of a parturient patient, safe and successful management may be achieved as outlined in this case report.	0	control	cesarean section in a group 1 pulmonary hypertension parturient patient: a case report.	severe pulmonary hypertension (ph) during pregnancy poses considerable challenges due to the physiological changes and increased cardiovascular demands. close multidisciplinary management is essential throughout the peripartum period. the critical steps taken to provide anesthesia safely and successfully for a planned cesarian section are outlined, with special care for communication between the cardiothoracic surgery and obstetric team. a 31-year-old g3p1112 (three pregnancies, one term delivery, one pre-term delivery, one abortion, with two living children) patient with a history of systemic lupus erythematosus complicated by group 1 ph presented to the operating room for a planned 34-week cesarean section. pulmonary artery systolic pressure (pasp) was noted to be 68 mmhg at this time. intravenous (iv) treprostinil at 8 ng/kg/min through a tunneled right subclavian line was initiated in her third trimester, and a day before her cesarean section, she was admitted for a lumbar epidural catheter placement. in the operating room, iv treprostinil was continued and a high-flow nasal cannula with inhaled nitric oxide at 20 ppm was initiated. a right internal jugular vein pulmonary artery catheter was placed for close monitoring of her pulmonary artery pressures, with a pasp reading of 64 mmhg at the start of the case. femoral arterial and venous access was placed by the cardiothoracic surgery team for cardiopulmonary bypass standby. intra-operative surgical analgesia was achieved by epidural lidocaine. a cesarean section was performed and was uncomplicated despite her post-delivery autotransfusion, where her pasp went as high as 89 mmhg. uterine atony was managed with an oxytocin infusion. epidural morphine was administered through the epidural catheter for post-operative analgesia. in the post-operative recovery room, her pasp was back down to baseline at 62 mmhg. the patient proceeded to have an uneventful postpartum hospital stay and was discharged home without any complications. while severe ph poses a challenge in the care of a parturient patient, safe and successful management may be achieved as outlined in this case report.	1.0
